ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
The following contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. Actual results, performance or achievements of the Company could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
GENERAL
As of March 14, 1997, the Company owned, or had entered into agreements to acquire, direct and indirect, interests in mineral properties located in the following countries:
All of the properties in which the Company had an interest as of March 14, 1997, are situated in geologic domain known as greenstone belts, which are ancient volcanic-sedimentary rock assemblages. Greenstone belts are known to be favorable geologic environments for gold mineralization and account for a significant proportion of the world's gold production, e.g., the greenstone belts of the Canadian Shield in eastern Canada, the Australian Shield of Western Australia, the African Shield of west Africa and the Guiana and Brazilian Shields of northern South America. The Company currently has active projects in the greenstone belts of the Guiana Shield (Guyana, Suriname, and French Guiana), the Brazilian Shield (Bolivia and Brazil), the West African Shield (Mali and Ivory Coast) and other greenstone belts in Eritrea, Kenya and Ethiopia. As a result of the Company's regional exploration activity for gold in the Guiana Shield, a regional exploration program was also established to search for possible primary diamond sources. So far, the diamond exploration program has led to the identification of diamond targets in French Guiana and Guyana. Regional geophysical surveys conducted in Suriname and Ivory Coast have also led to the identification of targets in countries which have the potential to contain diamond bearing structures. The location of the Company's interests in South America and Africa are illustrated in Figures 1 and 2 above, respectively.
Gold exploration and mining have, in the past, been conducted within most of the areas where the Company's properties are located. However, the areas have comparatively few large scale mining operations, due in some cases to a difficult physical environment, poor infrastructure, and until recently, adverse political and business conditions. Though there are, or have been, numerous artisanal mining operations scattered throughout the areas where the Company's properties are located, with a few exceptions, these areas have generally not yet been fully explored using modern techniques and equipment.
All of the Company's mineral properties are located in developing countries, with the exception of Brazil and French Guiana, a Departement of France. There are certain business and political risks inherent in doing business in developing countries. In particular, the regulatory framework for conducting mining and exploration activities in these countries, including the tax and general fiscal
regimes and the manner in which mineral rights and title to mineral properties are established and maintained, are often uncertain, incomplete, in a state of flux or subject to change without notice. Further, in many countries in which the Company's projects are located, it may not be economically feasible to develop a commercial mine unless special tax or other fiscal and regulatory concessions are obtained and maintained from the applicable government and regulatory authorities. Such concessions are typically sought in a mineral agreement (also known as foreign investment agreements and establishment agreements). A mineral agreement thus serves to establish the legal and financial framework under which mining will take place in countries where such framework might be otherwise unclear, uncertain or not commercially viable. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to execute or enforce satisfactory mineral agreements or obtain satisfactory political risk insurance on commercially reasonable terms for any or all of its properties. Consequently, the Company may have to abandon or relinquish certain mineral rights if it determines that it will not be able to profitably exploit any anticipated mineral discovery under existing laws and regulations. (See "Item 1. Risk Factors - "Risks of Foreign Operations" and "Requirements for Permits and Licenses".")
Total consolidated expenditures and property abandonment for the various exploration projects for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 were as follows:
(1) A division of Golden Star Resources Ltd. (2) Approximately 68% owned by the Company as of March 14, 1997. (3) Approximately 58% owned by the Company as of March 14, 1997. (4) Wholly owned by the Company.
The following is a description of the mineral property interests held by the Company and its subsidiaries as of March 14, 1997, in (i) Guyana, (ii) Suriname, (iii) French Guiana (Guyanor), (iv) elsewhere in Latin America (Southern Star), and (v) in Africa (PARC).
GUYANA PROPERTIES
GENERAL
The Co-operative Republic of Guyana ("Guyana"), a former British colony, obtained independence in 1966. It has a surface area of 216,000 km(2) with a population of approximately 750,000. The official language is English and the climate is tropical. Guyana is governed as a democratic republic, and the legal and land title systems are based on English common law.
PRODUCING PROPERTY: OMAI MINE
The Company owns a 30% common share equity interest in OGML, the company which owns and operates the Omai Mine. The mine is located on a 52 km(2) mining license on the Essequibo River, approximately 160 km southwest of Georgetown, Guyana. The mine is operated as an equity joint venture of the Government of Guyana, the Company and Cambior, the operator. Cambior and the Government of Guyana own 65% and 5% of OGML, respectively. Access to the mine is by improved road and ferry or by fixed-wing aircraft to an all-weather airstrip.
The Company and Cambior entered into an agreement with the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission ("GGMC") and the Government of Guyana on August 16, 1991 (the "OMAI Mineral Agreement"), whereby, among other things, OGML was granted the right to obtain a mining license (which was granted on December 12, 1991), and to carry out mining operations in accordance with the terms of the Omai Mineral Agreement. In addition, the Omai Mineral Agreement provides for the payment to the Government of Guyana of a 5% in-kind royalty from the Omai Mine. It also provides that capital and profits may be repatriated without restriction.
Pursuant to the articles of incorporation of OGML, the Government of Guyana was granted the option to acquire from the combined holdings of the Company and Cambior in the common shares of OGML (i) after the expiration of eight years from commencement of commercial production from the Omai Mine (which was achieved in January 1993), but before the expiration of the tenth year, 5% of the common shares of OGML issued and outstanding at such time; and (ii) after the expiration of ten years from commencement of commercial production, but before the expiration of the twelfth year, an additional 22% of the common shares of OGML issued and outstanding at such time, at a price to be established based upon the then current capital market values of the common shares of OGML. The Company and Cambior have each undertaken to sell and deliver to the Government of Guyana one-half of the total number of common shares of OGML required to be sold to the Government of Guyana upon exercise of the options mentioned above. If the Government of Guyana were to exercise both of its options as set forth above, the Company's common share equity interest in OGML would be reduced to 16.5%. Pursuant to the articles of incorporation of OGML, the Company is entitled to reimbursement of the sum of $11.0 million, representing exploration expenses incurred since 1985, directly or indirectly by the Company, its predecessors or by former joint venture partners, prior to any distribution to the common shareholders of OGML. The Company is entitled to receive 10% of net cash flow from operations of OGML (as defined in the Omai Mineral Agreement). This amount is calculated and paid quarterly to the Company by way of redemption of the preferred shares of OGML held by the Company. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 1993, 1994, 1995, and 1996, the Company received $413,000, $1,005,000, $1,209,467, and $1,144,876 respectively, by way of redemption of Class I preferred shares. The Company does not expect to receive dividends from its common share holdings in OGML until debt owed by OGML and guaranteed by Cambior is repaid and Class II and III preferred shares held by Cambior are redeemed. As of December 31, 1996, OGML had $174.3 million in debt and a total of 53.2 million in Class II and III preferred shares outstanding.
On August 19, 1995, a failure occurred in the main section of the tailings dam at the Omai Mine. The failure resulted in the discharge of cyanide-contaminated water into the Omai River, which in turn flowed into the Essequibo River. The report of a Commission of Inquiry appointed by the Government of Guyana was submitted on January 8, 1996, and stated that the Commission of Inquiry could see no justifiable reason for OGML not being permitted to resume production at the Omai Mine. The
Commission of Inquiry also made a number of recommendations in its report relating, among other things, to the construction of the new tailings pond, the treatment of water before its release into receiving waters and the implementation of other environmental safeguards. Production at the Omai Mine was suspended from August 19, 1995, until February 4, 1996.
As a consequence of the Omai tailings dam failure, OGML was as of March 7, 1997 named as a defendant in approximately 500 civil proceedings in Guyana. Such proceedings are currently being settled, without admission of liability, or being contested in good faith, as applicable. Amounts claimed under currently instituted proceedings against OGML do not exceed $1.5 million in the aggregate and insurance coverage may be available to OGML in relation to a substantial portion of these claims.
OGML and its shareholders, including the Company, may become involved as defendants, plaintiffs or otherwise in a variety of additional legal proceedings in Guyana or elsewhere in relation to this incident. There can be no assurance that such additional litigation will not result in material additional costs arising from out-of-court settlements, damage awards or other sanctions against OGML or the Company. Moreover, there can be no assurance that all or any of such additional costs will be covered by appropriate insurance.
Operations at the Omai Mine resumed on February 4, 1996, after the Government of Guyana and OGML executed an agreement authorizing OGML to recommence commercial production at the Omai Mine in accordance with the terms of the Mineral Agreement and the Mining License issued to OGML. Under the terms of the agreement to resume production, OGML agreed to: provide an independent geotechnical review of the new tailings pond constructed at the Omai Mine; install additional equipment to ensure compliance with the original discharge criteria set forth in the Project Environmental Impact Statement dated January 1991; study alternative technologies for cyanide reduction and plan and implement a public education program regarding cyanide; comply with new environmental legislation to be enacted by the Government of Guyana; conduct additional environmental monitoring of tailings, surface and ground waters; provide technical and financial assistance to the Government of Guyana, including the allocation of $0.1 million for laboratory equipment for environmental monitoring purposes; cooperate in the creation of a National Disaster Response Agency or similar body; prepare a closure plan in connection with the ultimate cessation of operations at the Omai Mine and for the reclamation of the original tailings pond together with appropriate measures to ensure the adequate funding of such closure plans; and create a Consultative Committee regarding environmental matters.
The primary direct financial impact of the Omai incident on the Company was the deferral of approximately $1.0 million of expected preferred share redemptions in 1995.
The Omai Mine was brought into commercial production in January 1993 and currently is the Company's only significant producing property. Gold production for 1993, 1994 and 1995 totaled 206,537 oz, 250,642 oz and 175,080 oz of gold, respectively. Gold production in 1996 of 254,950 oz was lower than the budgeted amount of 276,030 oz due primarily to the August 19, 1995 tailings dam failure and resulting reduced levels of production in early 1996 although production consistently improved during every quarter in 1996. The mine achieved record quarterly and monthly production of 92,834 oz of gold in the fourth quarter of 1996 and 35,403 oz in December 1996. The commissioning of the expanded mill facilities in the third quarter of 1996 contributed to higher production levels.
Quarterly gold production at the Omai Mine(1) for 1996 was as follows:
(1) The Company has a 30% equity interest in OGML which owns the Omai Mine. (2) There was no production at the Omai Mine from August 19, 1995 to February 4, 1996, due to the Omai dam failure. (3) Cash cost of production includes mining and milling costs, power generation and general services charges.
In 1996, OGML completed its mill expansion program at the Omai Mine at an approximate cost of $51.0 million, $7.0 million below budget, adding a semi-autogenous ("SAG") grinding mill and two ball mills to increase rated daily processing capacity from 12,000 tonnes to 18,000 tonnes per day. Moreover, electric generation at the mine was enhanced with the installation of additional generators for an 87% increase in power potential. OGML also completed a new tailings pond and waste water treatment facility at the mine. Excess process water is treated at the facility in accordance with environmental standards of Guyana, the United States and Quebec, Canada, prior to discharge into the Essequibo river.
Ore reserves at the Omai Mine are derived from four sources: the Fennell pit, the Wenot Lake pit, the alluvial deposits and stockpiles. In 1996, ore was processed from the Fennell pit, the Wenot Lake pit, alluvial deposits and the stockpiles. The average mined waste to ore ratio for 1996 was 2.2. Cash costs at the Omai Mine for 1996 and 1995 amounted to $252 and $224 per oz produced, respectively.
At December 31, 1996, proven and probable reserves totaled 66,612,000 tonnes grading 1.5 g Au/t representing 3,207,600 oz of contained gold.
(1) Reserves are calculated using a gold price of $425 per ounce with a cutoff grade of 0.35 g Au/t for soft rock reserves and 0.70 g Au/t for hard rock reserves. Recovery rates range between 85% and 90%, depending on grade.
EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
Total exploration expenditures in Guyana during 1996 amounted to $4.3 million, including $0.1 million reimbursed by the Company's joint venture partners. Total budgeted 1997 exploration, acquisition and reconnaissance expenditures in Guyana are $7.5 million, including budgeted joint venture recoveries of $1.1 million.
QUARTZ HILL AND OMAI RIVER
In January 1997, OGML was awarded prospecting licenses with respect to the Quartz Hill and the Omai River areas adjacent to the Omai Mine permit area. A budget of $1.0 million to be funded by OGML has been allocated in 1997, to conduct data compilation, line cutting, reconnaissance mapping and geophysical and geochemical surveys on these properties as well as the Omai Mine license.
The Quartz Hill property, located 3 km west of the Omai Mine, covers approximately 52 km(2). The Quartz Hill Prospecting License was previously acquired by the Company through the Amalgamation with South American. The Company carried out exploration work on Quartz Hill from 1992 through 1996. To consolidate exploration and possible development of the Quartz Hill area with the adjacent Omai property, the Company entered into a letter agreement in 1995 with OGML whereby the Company relinquished all of its right, title and interest in the Quartz Hill prospecting license in exchange for a beneficial interest in any prospecting license granted to OGML with respect to the same area. Under the agreement, OGML may acquire 100% of the Company's beneficial interest by either: (i) making quarterly payments to the Company equal to 25% of net cash flow generated from mining activity on the Quartz Hill property; or (ii) issuing to the Company, upon commencement of production at Quartz Hill, 1,386,000 Class IV Preference Shares with a par value of $1.00 per share, i.e., the equivalent of the approximate historical book value of the Company's investment in the Quartz Hill property. Such shares would be fully redeemable in equal quarterly installments during the 36-month period following commencement of commercial production from Quartz Hill.
The 1997 exploration program for the Omai Mine and these two adjacent properties includes 3,500 m of development drilling to delineate economic zones in soft rock at the mine and 2,000 m of core drilling at Quartz Hill. Execution of a definitive agreement between Cambior, OGML and the Company is subject to execution of an acceptable mineral agreement with the Government of Guyana regarding the Quartz Hill and Omai River properties. This agreement is subject to approval by the Board of Directors of OGML, and, for certain matters, approval of OGML's shareholders. There can be no assurance that an acceptable mineral agreement will be obtained from the Government of Guyana.
FIVE STARS GOLD AREAS, AND UPPER MAZARUNI AND UPPER POTARO DIAMOND AREAS
During 1996, the Government of Guyana granted to the Company 15 prospecting licenses for gold, precious metals and diamonds in northwestern Guyana. Each prospecting license covers an area of approximately 5,200 ha. Opposition to the grant of five of the Company's 15 prospecting license applications was made by a timber company claiming to have, under a previous agreement with the Government of Guyana, rights of first refusal to the grant of such licenses. Subsequently, an agreement was reached between the Company and the timber company pursuant to which the timber company was granted the option to either receive a 5% net profit interest or purchase up to a 20% undivided participating interest in any entity formed for the exploitation of the five prospecting licenses. The objections were dropped. The term of each license is three years, renewable twice for a
period of up to one year each. The minimum expenditures commitment for the first year work program on each license varies between $0.1 million and $0.2 million.
The Properties
The Five Stars gold area is underlain by the Barama-Mazaruni supergroup of greenstone rocks. The typical rock types are metavolcanic, ranging from felsic to mafic flows, and intrusives, and include pyroclastic and volcaniclastic units. The metavolcanics are interstratified with a range of clastic, manganiferrous and carbonaceous metasediments. These units are intruded by small granitoid stocks, some of which are sub-volcanic porphyries associated with felsic volcanism. Others are cupolas of larger underlying granitoid intrusives. The Barama-Mazaruni supergroup of rocks are continuous across Guyana's western border and into Venezuela where, as a result of better access and infrastructure, there are many known gold occurrences.
The Upper Mazaruni and Upper Potaro diamond areas are, for the most part, underlain by Roraima Supergroup sedimentary and metasedimentary rocks which have historically been regarded as the source of alluvial diamond deposits. In addition, the areas are located over the sites of intersecting crustal extension zones. The alluvial diamond deposits found throughout the Guiana Shield are generally regarded as having been derived from the degradation of the conglomeratic horizons within the 2,000 m thick sediments of the Roraima Formation.
Gold Exploration Work Program
During 1996, follow-up exploration was conducted over anomalous areas identified during the 1995 reconnaissance program on 13 prospecting licenses located in the Five Stars reconnaissance block. Soil sampling, totaling approximately 4,000 samples, was conducted on 800 meter by 100 m grids, augmented by stream sediment sampling. Significant (+50 ppb) gold anomalies were identified on seven prospecting licenses within the Five Stars area which warrant further follow-up work. No significant gold anomalies were identified on six of the Five Stars prospecting licenses, which are of primary interest for continued diamond exploration. On the Fish Creek One prospecting license deep augering and core drilling was conducted to test for depth extension of a major gold anomaly covering an area approximately 1,000 by 5,000 m. This work included tighter spaced soil sampling, deep augering, totaling 466 auger holes, and 17 exploratory core drill holes totaling 2,285 m. To date, the work at Fish Creek One has failed to identify a near surface locus of gold mineralization that could account for the significant gold anomaly previously identified. At the Whana East prospecting license to the west of Fish Creek One, a 400 by 50 m auger grid was established involving 1,596 two meter auger holes, which identified a significant anomaly measuring approximately 500 by 2,400 m.
The work program for 1997 involves follow-up work on the Fish Creek One, Whana East, Whana West, Rocky River, Erakiri, and Makapa prospecting licenses, all located within the Five Stars area. Detailed soil sampling on 200 by 50 m grids is planned to confirm anomalies identified on 800 by 100 m grids. Deep auger programs will be conducted on gold anomalies resulting from the detailed soil sampling programs. Additional core drilling is anticipated at Fish Creek One to test for the potential of a primary source of gold mineralization at depth.
Diamond Exploration Work Program
During 1996, diamond exploration was conducted over six prospecting licenses in the Five Stars, Upper Mazaruni and Upper Potaro areas of north western Guyana. In addition, the Company's diamond
exploration group, based in Guyana, conducted initial field reconnaissance and follow-up programs on three prospective diamond areas in Suriname, eight areas in French Guiana and assisted in the evaluation of prospective diamond targets in Cote d'Ivoire, west Africa. Work consisted primarily of stream sediment and soil sampling for heavy mineral examination, limited bulk sampling of potential diamond bearing rock and limited core drilling. Kimberlitic chromites were discovered on five of the areas explored in Guyana, while two areas yielded diamonds.
On one prospecting license in the Five Stars area, three diamond anomalies ranging in size from less than 1 to 4 ha. were investigated by core drilling, totaling approximately 1,000 m in nine holes, three holes on each target. Examination of the drill core from two of the three targets indicated diatreme and crater facies metamorphosed kimberlite. Two diamonds and a significant number of diamond indicator minerals were recovered from caustic fusion processing of drill core at Lakefield Laboratories in Toronto, Canada. The three targets drilled are part of a cluster of up to 70 potential kimberlites on the basis of the interpreted geophysical survey previously conducted.
During 1997, follow-up work is anticipated on the five areas in Guyana which yielded kimberlitic chromites and/or diamonds. Additional work on another five areas will be conducted, depending upon positive results from sampling programs completed in late 1996. The 1997 programs are anticipated to involve additional stream sediment and soil sampling, small scale bulk sampling, ground geophysical surveys to better locate potentially diamond bearing bodies, and finally core drilling to test select targets to obtain fresh rock samples for analysis.
GUYANA RECONNAISSANCE PROJECT
BHP Minerals International Exploration Inc. ("BHP") was granted a two-year non-renewable reconnaissance permit on June 19, 1996, for all minerals (excluding bauxite in those areas where prospecting licenses for bauxite already exist) covering three areas totaling approximately 2.5 million acres in Guyana. Under the terms of the reconnaissance permit, BHP is entitled to apply for prospecting licenses for precious metals and precious stones by June 19, 1998 covering up to 10% of the original area of the reconnaissance permit. Pursuant to a Heads of Agreement dated July 22, 1996, the Company and BHP formed a joint venture to conduct an evaluation of minerals located within the permit area (excluding diamonds and iron ore.) The Company holds a 40% participating interest in the joint venture and BHP holds a 60% participating interest. BHP and the Company are participating jointly in all operations on the basis of their respective participating interests, and failure by either company to advance its share of funds will result in dilution of its participating interest. BHP and the Company each may withdraw from the joint venture upon 30 days' notice. BHP is the manager of the project. The Company will, however, carry out exploration programs approved by the joint venture until completion of a feasibility study.
Work program
During the latter half of 1996, the Company completed a bulk leach geochemistry ("BLEG") sampling program over most of all the three areas with a sampling density of approximately one sample per 15 km(2). Anomalous gold targets were identified on Area 1 located North of the Company's Five Stars area and in the western sector of Area 3. No significant anomalous gold targets warranting follow-up work were identified on Area 2.
The program during 1997 will focus on better defining anomalies in Area 1 defined by the first phase of the BLEG survey. The second phase of work involves continued, and more densely spaced BLEG sampling. Results of the second phase of BLEG sampling will determine further follow-up programs.
SURINAME PROPERTIES
GENERAL
The Company is currently active in many gold exploration projects in The Republic of Suriname ("Suriname"). These include, among others, the Gross Rosebel, Headley's, Thunder Mountain, Saramacca, Kleine Saramacca, Antino, De Goeje, Yau Passi, Sara Kreek East Rights of Exploration and Sipaliwini Rights of Reconnaissance. Individual properties range from early to advanced stage exploration.
Suriname, a former Dutch colony, became independent in 1975. It has a surface area of 163,000 km(2), a tropical climate, and a population of approximately 470,000. The official language is Dutch with English spoken as a second commercial and technical language. Suriname has a democratically elected government.
During 1996, the Company incurred total exploration expenditures in Suriname of $12.0 million, including $6.4 million reimbursed by the Company's joint venture partners. Total 1997 budgeted exploration and acquisition expenditures are $10.2 million, including $4.5 million budgeted for joint venture recoveries. In addition, the Company has budgeted to incur mine development expenditures in 1997 of $14.0 million with respect to Gross Rosebel.
GROSS ROSEBEL
Pursuant to a mineral agreement dated May 8, 1992, as amended and restated on April 7, 1994 (the "Gross Rosebel Agreement"), between the Company, the Government of Suriname and a state mining company, Grasshopper Aluminum Company ("Grassalco"), Grassalco assigned to the Company its interest in the Gross Rosebel Right of Exploration, which covers exploration rights to a 170 km(2) area in north-central Suriname. The Gross Rosebel Agreement was ratified by the National Assembly of Suriname on March 1, 1994.
As partial consideration for the transfer of the Gross Rosebel Right of Exploration, the Company issued 60,000 common shares to Grassalco on June 28, 1994. Under the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement, the Company committed to expend an aggregate of $8.0 million on exploration activities over a five-year period commencing May 8, 1992, as follows: $0.3 million in the first year, $0.5 million in the second year, $1.2 million in the third year, $1.5 million in the fourth year and $4.5 million in the fifth year. Through December 31, 1996, the Company had spent approximately $21.1 million on the Gross Rosebel property and, as a result, fulfilled its expenditure requirement. Of the amounts expended by the Company, Cambior has contributed $11.6 million by way of joint venture recoveries (see discussion of Cambior Joint Venture below). In addition, in consideration for Grassalco making the Gross Rosebel property available for exploration, the Company paid pursuant to the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement $1.0 million to Grassalco. The Company is required to submit a feasibility study and environmental impact statement to the Government of Suriname by May 8, 1997.
Upon approval by the Suriname Government of the feasibility study and the environmental impact statement, the Gross Rosebel Right of Exploration may be converted into a Right of Exploitation for a period not exceeding 25 years. Prior to the issuance of a Right of Exploitation, an operating company
(the "Operating Company") would be formed to develop and operate a mine on the Gross Rosebel property in accordance with the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement. Within 30 days of the grant of the Right of Exploitation, the Company is obligated to pay to Grassalco the sum of $2.5 million as compensation for previous exploration expenditures incurred by Grassalco.
Upon the grant of a Right of Exploitation to the Operating Company, Grassalco will have the option, for a period of 60 days, to purchase an undiluted 20% common share equity interest in the Operating Company by paying 20% of all exploration costs previously incurred by the Company, plus 20% of all subsequently incurred unfinanced capital costs of the Operating Company. Grassalco has a further option to purchase a second undiluted 20% interest in the shares of the Operating Company eight years following the date of commencement of commercial production (as defined in the Gross Rosebel Agreement) in consideration for the payment of a sum equal to 90% of the market value of such shares, as determined in accordance with the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement.
The Gross Rosebel Agreement provides that a royalty of two percent of the gold produced from the Gross Rosebel property is payable in kind to Grassalco for the life of the project. In addition, a royalty of two percent of the proceeds received on any other minerals produced (less transportation and processing costs) is also payable to Grassalco. An advance royalty payment against the above-mentioned royalties of $6.5 million must be made within 90 days of receipt of the first proceeds from the sale of minerals at Gross Rosebel and a further $6.5 million will be due 12 months later. Further, in the event the price of gold exceeds $500 per oz, Grassalco is entitled to an additional 6.5% royalty on that portion of the sales price which exceeds $500 per oz.
The Cambior Joint Venture
The Company entered into an agreement on June 7, 1994, pursuant to which Cambior was granted the option to earn an undivided 50% interest in the Company's rights in the Gross Rosebel Agreement and Gross Rosebel property. On January 8, 1996, Cambior announced its decision to exercise its option to acquire 50% of the Company's rights in the Gross Rosebel property. Cambior became eligible to exercise its option after expending $6.0 million in exploration and development activities on the property, as required by the June 1994 option agreement. As also required under the option agreement, Cambior has funded a further $2.5 million in expenditures. Since April 1996, the Company and Cambior have been contributing equally in the expenditures on the Gross Rosebel property.
Under the option agreement, Cambior must use its best efforts to secure financing of at least 65% of eventual mine development costs from third parties. Cambior has assumed managerial responsibility for the preparation of a feasibility study. Cambior will also, if warranted, assume managerial responsibility for subsequent mine development and operation of the project. The Company continues to manage the exploration programs for the Gross Rosebel property.
A feasibility study is currently being finalized to be submitted to the Government of Suriname on or before May 8, 1997. The Company and Cambior are currently negotiating with the Government and representatives of the Niew Koffie camp village about the relocation of the village outside of the Gross Rosebel property. There can be no assurance that these negotiations will not delay the grant of the Right of Exploitation to the Operating Company.
The Property
The Gross Rosebel Right of Exploration covers 170 km(2) (17,000 ha.) and is located 80 km south of the capital city of Paramaribo, Suriname. Access is via a paved highway followed by an all-weather laterite surface road. Gold was reportedly first discovered in the area in 1879 and since that time more than half of Suriname's recorded production has been produced from the district by dredging and small artisanal surface and underground workings. Commencing in 1974, Surplacer N.V., a subsidiary of Placer Development, a Canadian mining company (now Placer Dome), conducted an extensive exploration program of trenching, hand augering and reverse circulation drilling over a period of three years. Subsequent field work was conducted by Grassalco over a period of seven years and a feasibility study was prepared and completed in 1984 by a Canadian engineering firm.
The Gross Rosebel Right of Exploration is underlain by Proterozoic Armina, Paramaca, and Rosebel metasedimentary and metavolcanic greenstone formations. These units are intruded by a large tonalitic stock near the southern boundary of the property, which has resulted in doming of the adjacent Armina rocks and the development of steep reverse faults.
The greenstone units are folded into a broad east-west trending and westerly plunging synclinal structure. Gold mineralization associated with at least five generations of hydrothermal quartz veins occur over large areas both in the south and north limbs of the syncline where these are cut by strong west-northwest trending shear zones. Locally, mineralization is controlled by zones of dilation along the shear planes and by drag folding. Intense tropical weathering has developed a residual surface laterite and saprolite profile of up to 50 m thick, overlying bedrock.
Gold mineralization has been established by the Company within at least ten separate target areas including Royal Hill, Mayo, Rosebel, Koolhoven, Pay Caro, East Pay Caro, "J" Zone, Bigi Asanjangmoni, Mama Kreek and Spin Zone. All of these target areas are capped by mineralized laterite blankets typically between 3 to 10 m in thickness overlying less continuous shear and/or fold related mineralization in saprolite and bedrock. Both types of deposits are being defined for potential mining.
Work Program
The 1996 exploration program focused on diamond drilling, with both infill and exploration holes totaling over 40,000 m (in excess of 80,000 m in 720 holes since the start of the program in 1992) with approximately 26,000 core samples assayed. Infill drilling in Pay Caro, East Pay Caro, Koolhoven, Bigi Asanjangmoni and Royal Hill defined the preliminary open pits and increased gold reserves. Exploration drilling, combined with 7,400 trench samples from over 27,700 m of trenching, uncovered several additional gold-mineralized shear zones, to the west of Pay Caro, to the south of the main zone in Koolhoven, in "J" Zone, and at the Mama Kreek and Spin Zone prospects. Pre-feasibility work delineated possible location for the tailings pond and mill site. Condemnation drilling was initiated, followed by geotechnical drilling and test pitting.
As part of a pre-feasibility study completed in April 1996, Cambior calculated proven and probable gold reserves of approximately 24 million tonnes grading 1.4 g Au/t, representing 1.1 million oz in situ. These reserves lie in the South block, containing the Royal Hill, Mayo and Rosebel deposits, and the North block, containing the Pay Caro and Koolhoven deposits. On September 26, 1996, the Company and Cambior announced a new mining reserve that resulted in an overall improvement in reserve grade as well as a slightly lower stripping ratio and expanded the proven and probable mining
reserve base by approximately 25%, to over 30 million tonnes grading 1.5 g Au/t, or approximately 1.4 million oz of gold in situ. There can be no assurance that this reserve calculation will be confirmed by the final feasibility study.
Reconnaissance work during 1996 involved approximately 300 km of line cutting to extend the one-meter auger grid to cover all of the North Limb prospects, with 1,300 holes sampled. Follow-up deep augering over soil anomalies provided 4,900 samples, and defined targets for trenching and diamond drilling. During 1996, the Company spent approximately $8.2 million on continued exploration expenditures and property payments, with $5.0 million contributed by Cambior.
The 1997 work program involves the continuation of intensive core drilling through to completion of the Gross Rosebel Project final feasibility study. Infill and pit definition drilling, anticipated to total approximately 13,500 m, will be concentrated at Koolhoven, Bigi Asanjangmoni and "J" Zone. The Noutoe zone will be tested by a series of trenches and an additional 1,750 m of trenching is planned for the Royal Hill zone. Ground geophysical surveys totaling 300 line km will help delineate future drill targets along the entire mineralized trend between Koolhoven and East Pay Caro. Condemnation and geotechnical drilling will be completed at the tailings pond, dump, plant and stockpile sites. A detailed topographic survey of the Gross Rosebel concessions is planned, requiring 170 km of line cutting.
Surficial exploration is planned with detailed soil sampling over Monsanto Hill involving 6 km of line cutting and 220 samples. Pending positive results, follow-up deep augering and trenching will be carried out. Reconnaissance sampling is planned to cover newly-acquired ground between the north and south limbs of the concession as well as the area between Mayo and Royal Hill to the southern granite contact of the large tonalitic stock to the south. A total of 100 km of line cutting and 2,000 soil samples have been budgeted for both areas.
Gross Rosebel is the most advanced of the Company's exploration projects. The objective of the 1997 work program is to continue exploration required to complete the final feasibility study for a full scale mining operation and to initiate construction.
KLEINE SARAMACCA, SARAMACCA, THUNDER MOUNTAIN AND HEADLEY'S RIGHTS OF EXPLORATION
On November 25, 1996, the Company entered into a preliminary option agreement with Mr. Lafantie regarding the Kleine Saramacca Right of Exploration covering approximately 198 km(2) (19,780 ha.). In order to maintain its rights under the option, the Company must (i) make aggregate annual payments over a five-year period totaling $280,000 and (ii) incur expenditures on the property of up to a total amount of $3.5 million. Such minimum expenditure requirements are conditional upon the optionor executing a mineral agreement with the Government of Suriname satisfactory to the Company. Upon exercise of the option, the Company will earn a 100% interest in the mineral rights to the Kleine Saramacca property, subject to governmental approval and a 12% net profit interest being retained by the optionor. The Company may elect to terminate the option at any time without further liabilities or obligations.
Pursuant to a decree dated March 7, 1992, the Government of Suriname granted to the Company the Headley's Reef Right of Reconnaissance, covering an area of approximately 2,022 km(2) (202,200 ha.), for a period of two years. On April 6, 1994, the Headley's Reef Right of Reconnaissance was converted into three Rights of Exploration covering in the aggregate an area of approximately 1,000 km(2) (100,000 ha.). The three Rights of Exploration are now referred to as Saramacca, Thunder Mountain and Headley's. They were granted for an initial period of three years ending in April 1997
and may be extended until 2001. An application for a two-year extension of the three Rights of Exploration was filed in March 1997. Under the terms of the Rights of Exploration, the Company has committed to spend $0.6 million during that three-year period on each Right of Exploration granted. As at March 14, 1997, the Company had only spent the required minimum expenditures on the Saramacca Right of Exploration. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the Thunder Mountain and Headley's Rights of Exploration will be renewed. However, management believes that due to the significant amount of money spent on the whole project so far, the other two Rights of Exploration should also be renewed. At any time after governmental acceptance of a feasibility study, the Company may apply for Rights of Exploitation for an initial period of up to 25 years.
The Company has spent an aggregate of $2.7 million as of December 31, 1996 on the exploration programs on the Kleine Saramacca, Saramacca, Thunder Mountain and Headley's group of properties including expenditures transferred from the Company's prior Headley's Reef Right of Reconnaissance. The entire area was flown on a 200 m line spacing as part of the Company's multi-country airborne magnetic and radiometric survey. This data, in conjunction with other sources of information, including extensive surface exploration work, has been used to prioritize target areas within the individual Rights of Exploration.
In 1996, the Company reached an understanding with BHP pursuant to which BHP will have a 60% participating interest and the Company a 40% participating interest in joint ventures covering the Kleine Saramacca and the Saramacca Rights of Exploration. BHP will be obligated to advance the Company's pro rata share of the exploration cost through completion of a final feasibility study. A formal joint venture agreement has not yet been executed. The Company has recovered $0.2 million from BHP for these two projects.
KLEINE SARAMACCA
The 198 km(2) (19,780 ha.) Kleine Saramacca Right of Exploration is in the Sipaliwini and Brokopondo districts between the Kleine Saramacca River and the road from Paramaribo to Pokigron. It is contiguous with, and to the southeast of, the Saramacca Right of Exploration. Access is either by road to the eastern portion of the concession, or by boat up the Saramacca and Kleine Saramacca Rivers. A grass airstrip south of the confluence of these two rivers can also be used for access by air.
The Kleine Saramacca Right of Exploration is underlain in the north and central portions by metavolcanic rocks, flanked on the southeast and southwest by granitic and tonalitic basement rocks. The volcanics are predominantly metabasalts and amphibolites.
Work Program
An initial reconnaissance exploration program was begun at Kleine Saramacca during 1996, involving the completion of 129 km of line cutting and the collection of 81 stream sediment samples from major drainages present on the property. During 1997, information gathered from the 1996 program will be used to plan a follow-up sediment sampling program in anomalous drainages. Anomalies identified from the more closely spaced steam sediment sampling program will be followed-up by grid line cutting and soil sampling to develop targets that warrant further tested by close spaced soil sampling and augering.
SARAMACCA
The Saramacca Right of Exploration covers approximately 382 km(2) (38,225 ha.) in the Brokopondo, Para and Sipaliwini districts both to the east and west of the Saramacca River, 80 to 110 km southwest of Paramaribo and 40 km west of the Gross Rosebel Right of Exploration.
Although remote, the entire length of the Saramacca Right of Exploration can be reached by motorized cargo canoe capable of carrying equipment up to the size of a small bulldozer in six hours or less from the nearest road. An unimproved dirt track is passable for heavy loads by four wheel drive trucks into the northwestern one-third of the concession. A grass airstrip located within the central-eastern portion of the area is suitable for small aircraft up to Twin Otter size.
The northern two-thirds of the Saramacca Right of Exploration is underlain by intermediate to basic metavolcanics of the Paramaca Formation intruded in places by small tonalitic plugs. To the southwest, ultramafics of the Bemau complex are the dominant rock type. A granite batholith is exposed within the northern belt. A second larger granite batholith separates the northern metavolcanics from the Bemau ultramafics. Gold mineralization within the northern volcanics appears to be associated with both tonalitic intrusives and basic metavolcanics. In the southwest, gold appears to be associated with the Bemau ultramafics. Mechanized artisanal mining is present in the Saramacca River and its tributaries within the central Brokolonko area, with several smaller operations currently active in the Goensi area within the northern metavolcanics.
Work Program
Work on the Saramacca property during 1995 at the Read-Pompoekampoe prospect indicated the presence of an underlying gold-mineralized structure. Deep augering (average depth of 9 m) on a 50x25 m spacing identified a gold-bearing zone (with grades greater than 0.25 g/t) ranging from 25 to 200 m in width, with a strike length of at least 700 m and open to the west. The Goensi deep augering program defined what appears to be two converging 50 m wide gold-mineralized zones (greater than 0.50 g/t), which have a combined strike length of approximately 700 m.
The 1996 exploration program was designed to determine the gold potential of areas not yet explored by the Company. A regional reconnaissance program utilizing panned concentrate and BLEG sampling tested creeks flowing from potential gold-mineralized areas. Field work for 1996 included 365 km of line cutting, 1,139 one-meter soil samples, 120 deep auger holes, 31 grab samples, 17 panned concentrate stream gravel samples and 298 stream silt samples. Total exploration spending on these areas during 1996 was $0.5 million, including joint venture recoveries of $0.2 million.
During 1997, new targets generated in 1996 will be followed-up by closer spaced stream sampling, grid line cutting and soil sampling. Work on existing targets in Goensi and Brokolonko is anticipated to involve deep augering and, if warranted, core drilling to better define zones of mineralization laterally and at depth.
THUNDER MOUNTAIN
The Thunder Mountain Right of Exploration covers approximately 380 km(2) (37,908 ha.) in the Brokopondo and Para districts between the Suriname and Saramacca rivers, 70 to 90 km south of Paramaribo. The property surrounds three sides of the Gross Rosebel Right of Exploration.
Most of the central and southwestern portion of the Thunder Mountain Right of Exploration lies within three to six km of a system of all weather dirt roads which traverse the Gross Rosebel area. The northwestern corner of the Right of Exploration is accessible from the Saramacca River or from an all-weather dirt road immediately north of the concession.
The Thunder Mountain Right of Exploration is underlain by the same Paramaca-Armina volcanic greenstone assemblage that hosts shear and quartz vein hosted gold mineralization in the Gross Rosebel concession. The large Brinks tonalitic intrusive crops out within the southern portion of the concession immediately south of the Gross Rosebel property. The airborne magnetic and radiometric survey has defined a northwest trending regional lineament (possibly a shear zone) just east of the Gross Rosebel property.
Work Program
Reconnaissance work during 1996 included 55 km of line cutting and approximately 1,400 one-meter auger samples over pan sample anomalies at the Berg en Dal, Kompanie Kreek and Dabikwen Kreek prospects. Follow-up deep augering was carried out over a 200 x 800 m soil anomaly at Dabikwen Kreek. Anomalous gold values were found around a late-stage diabase dike at Kompanie Kreek. Analysis of the airborne geophysical data by a Canadian consulting group assisted with the geological and structural interpretation of the area, with several targets being identified for further evaluation.
Following the expected signing of a mineral agreement, multi-element stream sediment and BLEG sampling is scheduled to be carried out in 1997 over the Fossi Bergi and Berg en Dal - Dabikwen Savannah prospects. The planned program involves up to 80 km of line cutting and collection of 300 stream samples. Resulting anomalies in Fossi Bergi will be followed-up by soil sampling on an initial 400 x 50 m grid. The grid will be reduced as soil anomalies are delineated, with a total of 30 km of line cutting and 900 samples budgeted. Core drilling is anticipated to evaluate the underground gold potential at the Headley's Reef deposit (drilled by Kennecott in the mid 1950s) as a possible source of high-grade feed for the Gross Rosebel mill. Initially 10 holes totaling 800 m will test the mineralized structure to a depth of 75 m.
HEADLEY'S
The Headley's Right of Exploration covers approximately 209 km(2) (20,860 ha.) in the Brokopondo District, 90 km southwest of Paramaribo. The property lies immediately southwest of the Gross Rosebel property. Small scale artisanal mining occurs in a number of locations within the concession.
The southeastern one-third of the Headley's Right of Exploration lies within 3 to 10 km of an all weather dirt road. The northwestern two-thirds is remote ranging from 7 to 16 km from road access.
The Headley's Right of Exploration is underlain by a continuation of the same volcano-sedimentary sequence of the Paramaca, Armina, and Rosebel formations extending west and southwest of the Gross Rosebel concession. The Moeroe Moeroe area in the northern portion of the concession immediately west of the Company's Mayo exploration target at Gross Rosebel is cut by a number of westerly trending shear zones permissive for gold mineralization.
Work Program
Exploration work in 1996 concentrated on field data compilation and interpretation, with soil sampling grids being designed to investigate pan sampling anomalies on Kraboe Doin Gebergte defined by the Company's regional reconnaissance program in 1995. Analysis of the airborne geophysical data by a Canadian consulting group has assisted with the geological and structural interpretation of the area.
Soil sampling will be carried out in 1997 over the stream sample anomaly on Kraboe Doin Gebergte, initially on a 200 x 50 meter grid. The sample grid will be reduced to 100 x 25 m over any resulting anomalies. A total of 12 km of line cutting and 440 soil samples have been budgeted for this work. Multi-element analysis will be carried out on an additional 200 samples from streams previously sampled by the Company exclusively for gold.
SOUTH BENZDORP PROJECT: ANTINO, DE GOEJE AND YAU PASSI RIGHTS OF EXPLORATION
Pursuant to a letter agreement dated January 22, 1993, between the Company and NANA Resources N.V., a Surinamese corporation ("NANA"), the Company entered into a service contract with respect to a Right of Reconnaissance located on an area known in Suriname as "South Benzdorp", which was issued to NANA in 1992. The essential terms of the letter agreement were restated in an option agreement dated as of January 22, 1994 (the "South Benzdorp Option Agreement"). Pursuant to the South Benzdorp Option Agreement, NANA granted the Company the option to acquire, subject to governmental approval, a 100% interest in any Right of Exploration issued to NANA pursuant to the South Benzdorp Right of Reconnaissance. Three Rights of Exploration, known as Antino (24,000 ha.), De Goeje (37,000 ha.), and Yau Passi (40,000 ha.) were granted to NANA in 1996. The Rights of Exploration are valid for three years and may be extended until 2003. The option is valid until the expiration of such Rights of Exploration and any extension thereof. Under the South Benzdorp Option Agreement, the Company had to expend a minimum of $250,000 on the South Benzdorp property. The minimum expenditure requirement has been met and, as a result, the Company may, subject to governmental approval, at any time prior to expiration, exercise its option to acquire a 100% interest in the Rights of Exploration.
Assuming exercise of the South Benzdorp option, the Company must complete a feasibility study in respect of one or more of the three Rights of Exploration six months prior to the expiration of such Rights or any extension thereof or reassign the Rights of Exploration to NANA, subject to governmental approval. In the event the Company or a related party enters into a mineral agreement with the Government of Suriname with respect to any portion of the Rights of Exploration, the Company will be obligated to pay NANA the sum of $50,000. The Company has also agreed to grant NANA a 10% net profit interest with respect to any portion of the Rights of Exploration which may be brought into commercial production, subject to the Company's right to repurchase half of such entitlement, within 60 days of obtaining a Right of Exploitation, for the sum of $3.0 million.
THE ANTINO RIGHT OF EXPLORATION
The Antino property covers an area of 370 km(2) and is located in the Sipaliwini District in Southeastern Suriname along the Lawa River, on the border of French Guiana, in the locality of Benzdorp.
Benzdorp, a former gold trade center, is 240 km southeast of Paramaribo and 220 km south and upstream from Albina on the lower Marowijne River (also called Maroni River in French Guiana).
Gold bearing alluvials in the area of the Antino property were discovered around 1885. From 1895 to 1928 the Compagnie d'Or de la Guyane Hollandaise recorded a production of 9,854 kg of gold from the area of the property. During the period of 1928 to 1963, a further 2,657 kg of gold were reportedly produced. Some dredging was carried out from 1963 to 1969, after which activity was limited to local artisanal miners.
Access to the area is by air or by boat. Small fixed wing aircraft are able to land at a maintained grass strip on an island in Lawa River in front of the Benzdorp landing. The entire eastern boundary of the Antino property is accessible from the Lawa River. Access into the property is by 30 km of wilderness road passable by four wheel drive vehicles. The main camp at Fatoe Switie is 17 km from the Benzdorp landing. The camp is fully equipped with lodging for 37 people.The Antino area contains a northwest striking Proterozoic greenstone belt of volcanic-sedimentary rocks surrounded by granitic gneissic terrain. The greenstone units, locally named the Fatoe Switi belt, are composed of basic and intermediate volcanic rocks, intermediate volcaniclastic rocks and fine grained sedimentary rocks intruded by several tonalitic plugs.
Structurally, the Fatoe Switi greenstone belt is characterized by strong north and northwest trending lineaments as defined by regional foliation. These lineaments are cross-cut by east and northeast lineaments representing probable late shear zones which contain the main alluvial gold deposits.
Work Program
Field work during the first half of 1996 was concentrated on infill and step-out deep augering over the Upper Antino and Lower Antino targets as follow-up to the Company's 1995 program of mechanized deep augering. Approximately 1,500 m of deep augering was completed at Upper Antino (project to date total of 8,000 m) and approximately 550 m was completed in Lower Antino (project to date total of 2,900 m). Additionally, approximately 3,000 m of grid line were cut (project to date total of 413 km) and 5 km of new road was constructed to provide access to drilling sites in the Upper and Lower Antino areas.
On October 14, 1996, the Company announced the results of 51 close spaced deep auger holes at Upper Antino, which exhibited near surface, saprolite mineralization with a weighted average grade of approximately 8.1 g Au/t over a strike length of approximately one kilometer, widths of up to approximately 65 m and depths ranging from approximately 5 to 30 m. A core drilling program was initiated to establish the continuity of higher grade shear zone hosted mineralization at depth in hard rock below the saprolite mineralization defined by this deep augering.
On January 8, 1997, the Company announced the results from the first phase of the core drilling program on the Antino project. The drilling program involving 20 holes drilled on 50 m centers, verified the existence of a mineralized shear zone over a strike length of approximately 350 m to a vertical depth of approximately 100 m. Based upon the first phase of drilling, mineralization within the shear zone exhibits a weighted average grade of approximately 12.8 g Au/t over an average true thickness of approximately 4 m.
In Lower Antino, limited core drilling indicated good continuity at depth of mineralization indicated by deep augering. Mineralization is hosted by a tabular shaped felsic intrusive body (sill) with a 20 m minimum true thickness. Gold grades vary from 0.9 to 7 g/t with significant drill intersections up to 28 m thick with an average grade of 1.2 g/t.
The budgeted 1997 exploration program at Antino consists of core drilling and ground geophysical surveys. The drilling program is anticipated to involve 6,000 to 8,000 m of core drilling over the Upper and Lower Antino targets. Drilling will focus on extensions of the known zones along strike and at depth. Ground geophysics utilizing induced polarization (IP) is scheduled to provide better definition of the plunging structures hosting strong sulphide, carbonate and chlorite alteration and high gold grades. Ground magnetics and VLF-EM will also be carried out over both targets to better define the location of specific lithologic units and shear zones. In conjunction with core drilling, a deep augering program totaling 150 holes (2,250 m) is scheduled to be carried out over the Upper Antino target area, to test for potential mineralization along strike to the south. In Lower Antino, the Company has planned to drill an additional 100 deep auger holes (1,500 m) over the western most anomalous area.
THE DE GOEJE AND YAU PASSI RIGHTS OF EXPLORATION
The De Goeje property covers an area of 370 km(2) and is located in the Sipaliwini District in Southeastern Suriname west of the Lawa River, close to the border with French Guiana, in the locality of Benzdorp. The Yau Passi property covers an area of 400 km(2) and is located in the Sipaliwini District in Southeastern Suriname along the Lawa River, on the border with French Guiana, in the locality of Benzdorp.
In November 1996, the Company and BHP entered into a Heads of Agreement with respect to the De Goeje and Yau Passi Rights of Exploration pursuant to which BHP has a 60% participating interest and the Company a 40% participating interest in a joint venture with respect to the De Goeje and Yau Passi Rights of Exploration. The term of the De Goeje / Yau Passi agreement commenced on November 13, 1996 and will continue until the last surviving mineral right with respect to the properties has expired. BHP and the Company have agreed to associate themselves to conduct a detailed evaluation of minerals on the areas covered by the De Goeje and Yau Passi Rights of Exploration. Each party is required to pay its pro rata share of work programs and budgets, provided that BHP must carry the Company by advancing its share of work programs and budgets until completion of a feasibility study regarding the properties. Upon delivery of such feasibility study, the Company will have 90 days to elect whether to withdraw from, or participate in, the project described in the feasibility study. If the Company withdraws, it will have no obligation to reimburse BHP for its pro rata share of expenditures. If the Company elects to participate, it will have to immediately reimburse BHP of 40% of all expenditures incurred on behalf of the joint venture. Each party may withdraw from the Heads of Agreement upon 30 days' notice.
Work Program
In 1996, field work included 277 stream sediment BLEG samples on a wide-spaced reconnaissance pattern of one sample per 10 km(2). Objectives for 1997 are to define anomalous drainage targets to be sampled at closer spacing, followed by grid line cutting and soil sampling.
SARA KREEK EAST
Pursuant to an option agreement among the Company, Sitex Gold N.V. ("Sitex") and Elkor Investment Company Ltd. ("Elkor"), dated July 11, 1996, the Company was granted the right to acquire a 100% interest in the Sara Kreek East Right of Exploration, which covers approximately 59 km(2) (5,940 ha.). Upon the exercise of the Sara Kreek East option, Sitex and Elkor will be entitled to receive 8.125% and 4.375% net profit interests, respectively, from all future profits derived from the Sara Kreek East Right of Exploration.
In order to maintain its rights under the Sara Kreek East option, the Company must (i) make aggregate annual payments over a five-year period totaling $525,000 and (ii) incur minimum expenditures on the property of $4,750,000, ranging from $0.5 million in year one to $1.5 million in year five, on each option. Such minimum expenditure requirements are conditional upon the optionors executing a mineral agreement with the Government of Suriname with respect to each property on terms satisfactory to the Company.
During 1996, the Company spent $0.4 million on development of the Sara Kreek Right of Exploration, the majority of which was recovered from BHP. In 1996, the Company had reached an understanding with BHP with respect to a possible joint venture covering the Sara Kreek East Right of Exploration. Later in 1996, BHP indicated that it did not want to pursue this opportunity.
The Property
The Sara Kreek East property is accessible from Paramaribo by small aircraft to grass air strips in each area, as well as by river during the rain season. Sara Kreek East is underlain by a north-northwest trending Proterozoic volcaniclastic greenstone belt. The rocks show strong shearing, with development of quartz veins, stringers and silicification. An intrusive rock of ultramafic composition cuts through the central portion of the area.
Work Program
Work on the Sara Kreek East property during 1996 included 162 km of line cutting, 134 stream sediment samples, 2,987 soil samples and 57 deep auger holes.
In 1997, untested stream anomalies will be covered by a grid of soil samples. Close spaced augering will follow-up on the high grade deep auger intersections in evidence from 1996 deep auger holes.
SIPALIWINI
On April 23, 1996, the Company entered into a services contract and option agreement with NANA the recorded owner of the Sipaliwini Right of Reconnaissance. Under the terms of the agreement with NANA, the Company has the right to perform reconnaissance work on the Sipaliwini Right of Reconnaissance at its own cost. Provided such services are rendered until the issuance of a Right of Exploration on the Sipaliwini property, NANA will be deemed to have granted to the Company a five-year option to acquire a 100% interest in any Right of Exploration or other successor mineral rights granted on the property, subject to a 12.5% net profit interest to be held by the optionor. In order to maintain its rights under the agreement, the Company must (i) make payments of $15,000 on the signing of the agreement, $75,000 in year two, and $125,000 in each of years three through five, and (ii) incur minimum expenditures on the property of $4.5 million ranging from $0.3 million in year one
to $1.5 million in year five. Prior to the execution of a mineral agreement with the Government of Suriname with respect to the Sipaliwini property, the Company's sole obligation is to carry-out sufficient exploration work to maintain the mineral right in good standing. The Company may elect to terminate the agreement at any time without further liabilities or obligations.
The Property
The Sipaliwini Right of Reconnaissance covers an area of 2,000 km(2) located in the Sipaliwini District in Southern Suriname along the opposite banks of Sipaliwini River and Akalapi Creek. The area is accessible by air using three grass airstrips in the region. The area is covered by heavy tropical forest, with the exception of the southeast portion close to the border with Brazil, where the typical landscape is open savanna. The area is inhabited by small nomadic groups of Amerindians.
Geologically it is composed of Middle Proterozoic low grade metamorphic acid to intermediate metavolcanics of continental origin, and leucogranites, granite porphyries and granophyres, possibly representing the feeders of the metavolcanics. This assemblage is intruded by large bodies of medium to coarse crystalline biotite granite. A conspicuous feature is the large number of small bodies of mafic to ultramafic composition intrusive into the metavolcanics and granophyres.
Work program
Work during 1996 included 142 stream gravel pan concentrates, 135 stream silt samples for BLEG and conventional gold assay as well as 30 element ICP, and five bulk samples of 4m(3) each for diamond indicator minerals. To December 31, 1996 the lab had returned 120 assays.
Work for 1997 is expected to include wide spaced drainage sampling of those areas in the property not covered by the 1996 survey, and follow-up sampling on a closer spacing of anomalous areas as indicated by the phase one sampling.
SURINAME RECONNAISSANCE PROJECTS
On August 19, 1996, the Company entered into a heads of agreement with BHP covering different project areas in Suriname. Included in the project areas are areas covered by applications for Rights of Reconnaissance filed or to be filed with the Government of Suriname by the Company or BHP. The project areas may be modified by the parties from time to time. Under the heads of agreement, BHP shall have a 60% participating interest and the Company a 40% participating interest in any joint venture to be entered into with respect to a specific area. BHP and the Company participate jointly in the exploration costs of each different project area on the basis of their respective participating interest. BHP and the Company may withdraw from the agreement by giving 30 days' notice.
FRENCH GUIANA PROPERTIES
GENERAL
French Guiana is part of the French national territory and has been an overseas "Departement" of France since 1946. The Departement, which has an area of 84,000 km(2) and a population of approximately 130,000, is represented by two members of the French National Assembly and by one member of the French Senate. Pursuant to the French Constitution, French Guiana is governed by the
same laws as metropolitan France, subject to modifications to French law (including those affecting tax and mining laws and regulations) that may be adopted by France or French Guiana to reflect the historical, cultural, geographical and economic characteristics of French Guiana and to provide for administrative structures and regional administration. French mining laws have recently undergone revisions insofar as they apply to metropolitan France. The French Government is in the process of determining the extent to which the revised mining laws should apply to French Guiana. The text of the revised mining laws was adopted by the French Senate on February 27, 1997. The revised laws are now subject to the approval of the French National Assembly in order to be applicable. An appointed Prefect, representing the Government of France, holds governmental and administrative powers locally. A 19-member, locally-elected General Council votes on departmental budget and local regulation matters.
The granting of mining titles in French Guiana is administered, depending upon the type of mining title, by the Direction Regionale de l'Industrie, de la Recherche et de l'Environnement ("DRIRE"), the Ministry of Industry and the Conseil d'Etat in France. To apply for and acquire a mining title, a company must obtain a Personal Mining Authorization, or "Autorisation Personnelle Miniere" ("APM"). Under an APM, a company is granted the right to hold up to a certain number of permits. Guyanor was granted an APM on October 6, 1993, effective January 7, 1994, authorizing it to hold up to 15 mining titles for gold and related substances. This APM was amended to include precious metals or precious stones on March 21, 1995. The APM was further amended on August 13, 1996 to allow Guyanor to hold ten additional mining titles. SOTRAPMAG and Societe Guyanaise des Mines ("SGM") (see below - "SOTRAPMAG and Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche Properties") each have APMs authorizing them to hold 11 permits and three permits, respectively.
GUYANOR RESSOURCES S.A.
All of the Company's interests in mineral properties located in French Guiana are held through Guyanor, an approximately 68% owned subsidiary of the Company, incorporated under the laws of France as a societe anonyme on April 20, 1993. Guyanor's head office and registered office are located at Lot. Calimbe 2, Route du Tigre, B.P. 750, 97300 Cayenne, French Guiana.
PROPERTIES OF GUYANOR
The mineral properties in which Guyanor has an interest (either directly or through its subsidiaries) consist of the St-Elie, Dieu-Merci, Yaou, Dorlin, Paul-Isnard, Eau-Blanche, Regina Est and Dachine properties, all located in French Guiana. Guyanor's interests in the properties are held by way of exploration permits, concessions, property purchase agreements and joint venture and option agreements. All of the properties are in the exploration or pre-exploration stage, except the Yaou project which is already at an advanced stage.
During 1996, Guyanor spent $9.3 million in continuing exploration and acquisition expenditures, with $6.9 million reimbursed by joint venture partners. Budgeted 1997 exploration and acquisition expenditures total $17.9 million, with $13.0 million in budgeted joint venture recoveries.
Guyanor currently holds, directly, or indirectly through SOTRAPMAG and SGM, a total of 18 permits, 12 for the Yaou and Dorlin properties, four for the Paul-Isnard property, one for the Regina Est property and one permit for the Dachine.
ST-ELIE AND DIEU-MERCI
On October 25, 1993, Guyanor entered into an agreement to acquire the St-Elie concession for FF1.0 million (approximately $0.2 million). Guyanor also paid approximately $0.9 million to Compagnie Miniere Esperance S.A. ("CME") in consideration of the relinquishment of certain contractual rights which CME held in the St-Elie concession. The aggregate amount of $1.1 million represented the Company's original expenditure for the St-Elie concession and was satisfied by Guyanor's issuance of a $1.1 million promissory note payable to the Company. This amount was canceled in March 1995 in consideration for the issuance to the Company of Guyanor shares. Pursuant to an agreement dated October 22, 1993, CME agreed to relinquish to Guyanor certain residual alluvial exploitation rights in consideration for $0.5 million and a royalty of 5% of any fine gold extracted from the concession, up to a maximum of 3,215 oz.
By agreement dated February 18, 1995, Guyanor agreed to transfer to ASARCO Inc. ("ASARCO") a 50% equity interest in Societe des Mines de St-Elie S.A.R.L. ("SMSE"), a company wholly owned by Guyanor and to which the St-Elie concession was transferred by decree of the French government dated April 24, 1996. SMSE was granted an APM, authorizing it to hold up to three mining titles. Under the terms of the agreement, ASARCO must fund 100% of all costs required to advance the St-Elie concession to the development stage for a mining operation, including reimbursement of certain expenses incurred by Guyanor and completion of a feasibility study within five years or any shorter period as provided in the agreement with respect to Guyanor's acquisition of the St-Elie concession. ASARCO is required to spend $10.0 million on the concession over a five-year period. If ASARCO completes the feasibility study for less than $10.0 million, ASARCO must expend the remaining balance on the St-Elie concession before Guyanor is required to contribute its proportionate share of expenses. ASARCO and Guyanor will be entitled to reimbursement of all expenses related to the St-Elie concession incurred by each of them and Guyanor will be entitled to a finder's fee of $1.8 million, on a pro rata basis, prior to any distribution of revenues based upon each party's participating interest in SMSE. The agreement provides that ASARCO's 50% interest in SMSE will return automatically to Guyanor if ASARCO's various commitments described above are not met. ASARCO may decide at any time to terminate its obligations under the agreement and stop funding the project.
On February 19, 1997, SMSE and a French company entered into an agreement pursuant to which SMSE was granted the four-year option to acquire a 100% undivided interest in three concessions and one exploration permit immediately adjacent to the St-Elie property and covering a 155 km(2) (15,500 ha.) area known in French Guiana as Dieu-Merci. In order to maintain its rights under the Dieu-Merci option, SMSE must (i) make annual payments of FF4.0 million in year one, FF1.5 million in year two, FF2.0 million in year three and FF2.5 million in year four and (ii) incur minimum expenditures on the Dieu-Merci property of FF5.5 million (including a 3,000 meter core drilling campaign) during year one and FF5.0 million during each subsequent year of the option period. SMSE may exercise the option at any time by paying the difference between FF21.5 million and the annual payments made as of the exercise date. In addition, upon exercise of the option, the optionor will be entitled to receive a 3% net smelter royalty from future production from the Dieu-Merci property. In the event the St-Elie property is mined first, the optionor will be entitled to a 1% net smelter royalty from the St-Elie property. The Dieu-Merci property is subject to the ASARCO joint venture regarding the St-Elie property. SMSE has already made the first payment of FF4.0 million which was funded equally by Guyanor and ASARCO.
The Property
The St-Elie concession was originally constituted by the government of France in 1889 and covers a rectangular area of 99 km(2) (9,900 ha.) located in north central French Guiana, 110 km west of Cayenne, the departmental capital. The Dieu-Merci property covers an area of 155 km(2) (15,500 ha.) adjacent to the eastern and southeastern portions of the St-Elie concession. The Dieu-Merci property is composed of three concessions (Dieu-Merci, La Victoire and Renaissance) and one exploration permit (Couriege). St-Elie and Dieu-Merci are located in a region which remains virtually undeveloped. Access to the concession is currently by helicopter, airplane, or by a recently completed 20 km private road from Tigre Creek.
The first gold discoveries in the St-Elie region were made in 1873, when two placer deposits were discovered within the limits of the present St-Elie concession. During the period from 1878 to 1923, approximately 11 tonnes of gold production was recorded from the concession. Following a change in the concession's ownership in 1923, a mill was installed on the property and from 1923 to 1955, approximately 3,625 kg of gold were produced. From 1956 to 1993, mining activities on the concession were intermittent and consisted only of local, small-scale operations.
The basement rocks of the St-Elie region, including Dieu-Merci, consist of four geological units, all Precambrian in age: (i) a Paramaca volcano-sedimentary unit; (ii) Caribbean granites; (iii) Guianese granites; and (iv) the Bonidoro sedimentary unit. The Paramaca volcano-sedimentary rocks are oriented north-northwest and consist of schists, quartzites, lavas and amphibolites, uniformly metamorphosed to the amphibolite facies by the Caribbean granites. There are six known plutons of Caribbean granites which intrude the Paramaca sequence. Several of the plutons may be connected at depth and most are aligned along an east-west direction. The Bonidoro sedimentary unit is composed of quartzite, schists and conglomerates.
To the Company's knowledge, gold extracted to date from the St-Elie, Michel and Devis sectors of the concession was from both alluvials and weathered bedrock, but in unknown proportions, possibly one-third from altered bedrock which comprises both saprolite and quartz veins. The saprolite was mined by surface washing and the quartz veins were mined either by small-scale open-pit or underground methods. Other sources of gold which have been identified include recent and ancient alluvial deposits, re-worked lateritic deposits, eluvial and surficial deposits and mining residues. However, on the basis of present knowledge of the areas, bedrock sources appear to be the most promising and, Guyanor believes, the most recommended for exploration.
Work Program
During 1996, Guyanor's exploration spending on the St-Elie concession totaled $2.4 million, all of which was reimbursed by ASARCO pursuant to its agreement with Guyanor regarding the St-Elie concession.
Extensive exploration work began at St-Elie in late October 1995. Geological, geochemical and geophysical work completed in 1995 identified nine primary drill targets on the property. During the first half of 1996, 34 holes were drilled, totaling 4,982 m, on the Devis and Michel zones of the property. In May 1996, Guyanor completed 23 holes for 3,202 m in the Devis zone. Mineralization was encountered in approximately 57% of the core holes drilled, illustrating a mineralized zone approximately 550 m in length by 200 m wide and exhibiting average intersection widths of 8.5 m at a weighted average grade of 2.6 g Au/t. In July 1996, Guyanor completed an initial 11 hole, 1,780 m
drilling campaign in the Michel zone over an area of mineralization approximately 1.2 km in length by 200 m wide. At the Michel zone, mineralization was encountered in approximately 82% of the core holes drilled, with average intersection widths of 4.3 m at a weighted average grade of 3.9 g Au/t.
Line cutting and hand auger soil sampling were continued over the southeastern part of the St-Elie concession (1,933 samples collected in 1996, 50 m spaced at 100 to 200 m line spacing) and several 300 m wide x 1,000 m long NW trending 100 ppb Au anomalies have outlined the new target areas of Chemin de Fer-Giraud, St-Auguste-Madeleine and Sable-Jonquemont areas. These anomalous areas have been confirmed by the existence of coincident geophysical anomalies corresponding to zones of quartz veining and hydrothermal alteration. During 1996, 48 trenches (2,200 m) were dug over the Pactole-Courriege, Chemin de Fer-Giraud, Sable-Jonquemont and St-Auguste-Madeleine areas. The most significant results have been obtained from the Chemin de Fer-Giraud area where four trenches over a 1,200 m long x 40 m wide NNW trending zone of intense quartz veining yielded an average mineralized interval of approximately 12 m with a weighted average grade of 3.0 g Au/t.
Previous exploration work on the Dieu-Merci project included a soil geochemical survey conducted by the Bureau de Recherches Geologiques et Minieres ("BRGM") on a 100 x 100 m grid, totaling approximately 900 samples over an area of 4 x 2 km approximately 2 km southeast of the St-Elie concession. This survey identified four different 400 to 600 m anomalous areas with values greater than 0.9 g Au/t; Kerouani, Virgile, Cesar and Devis Sud. Work conducted by the previous owner included augering (190 holes), trenching and drilling 18 shallow core holes. At Kerouani, five trenches excavated across the zone over a strike length of approximately 350 m exhibited an average mineralized interval of approximately 18 m with a weighted average gold grade of 10.7 g Au/t. At Virgile, five trenches over a strike length of approximately 450 m exhibited an average mineralized interval of approximately 10 m with a weighted average gold grade of 7.6 g Au/t. At Cesar, five trenches excavated over a strike length of approximately 500 m exhibited an average mineralized interval of approximately 18 m with a weighted average gold grade of 6.0 g Au/t.
The 1997 work program plans trenching over the St-Auguste-Madeleine area and conducting a 15,000 m drilling campaign with two drills. The first phase of this campaign is scheduled for a minimum of 4,500 m over the Chemin de Fer-Giraud and Michel zones (infill drilling) and a minimum of 3,000 m over the new target areas of Kerouani and Virgile on the Dieu-Merci project. The second phase of the program has scheduled 4,500 m of core drilling over the Sable-Jonquemont, Pactole-Couriege and St-Auguste-Madeleine areas, as well as 3,000 m over other target areas on Dieu-Merci. Extensions of the soil geochemistry grids are planned throughout the area as well as limited ground geophysical surveys.
YAOU AND DORLIN
Pursuant to an agreement dated July 16, 1993, the Company acquired from BHP for $4.3 million a 63.3% participating interest in a joint venture between BHP and BRGM with respect to six type "B" exploration permits covering an area known as Yaou (the "Yaou Permits") and six type "B" exploration permits covering an area known as Dorlin (the "Dorlin Permits") in French Guiana. In August 1993, the Company transferred its 63.3% participating interest in the joint venture to Guyanor at cost. Further to an agreement dated August 3, 1993, between the Company and BRGM and a subsequent agreement, dated September 23, 1993, among the Company, Guyanor and BRGM, Guyanor acquired for $2.5 million BRGM's 36.7% interest in the joint venture assets owned for the benefit of the joint venture by BRGM. In addition, Guyanor agreed to pay to BRGM a further FF14.0 million (approximately $2.8 million) as follows: FF7.0 million at the time of completion of a feasibility
study on either the Yaou or Dorlin properties and FF7.0 million at the time of commencement of commercial production on either of these properties. The transfer of the Yaou and Dorlin Permits from BRGM to Guyanor was approved by the relevant French regulatory authorities on May 25, 1994. Both BHP and BRGM are arms' length parties to Guyanor and the Company.
Guyanor and the Company entered into an option agreement with Cambior, dated as of May 11, 1994, under which Cambior was granted the option to acquire a 50% interest in a sole purpose company holding Guyanor's Yaou and Dorlin permits interests in French Guiana. Cambior may exercise the option by spending $11.0 million on the Yaou and Dorlin permits by June 30, 1998. The agreement also provides that Guyanor is to manage the exploration of the Yaou and Dorlin Permits and Cambior is to undertake the preparation of a feasibility study on the properties and to manage the development and operation of future mining operations. The acquisition by Cambior of any interest in the Yaou and Dorlin Permits is subject to French government approval. There can be no assurance that such approval will be granted. After having met its initial funding requirement, Cambior may elect to terminate the agreement and stop funding the project at any time. As at December 31, 1996, Cambior had expended $4.3 million and $2.0 million at Yaou and Dorlin, respectively.
A renewal of four type "B" permits for Yaou was approved for a two-year period from March 31, 1995, ending March 31, 1997. Application for another two-year period was submitted on December 24, 1996. Renewal of the two other "B" permits for Yaou was approved for a two-year period from March 1, 1996, ending March 1, 1998. A renewal of the six type "B" permits for Dorlin was approved for a two-year period from May 31, 1995, ending May 31, 1997. Applications for further renewals of the six Dorlin permits was submitted in March of 1997. However, there can be no assurance that the Yaou and Dorlin permits will be renewed.
The Yaou Property
The Yaou Permits cover a total area of 150 km(2) (15,000 ha.) and are located some 210 km southwest of Cayenne, French Guiana. Access to the property is by helicopter or four wheel drive vehicle on 17 km of dirt road northwest from the town of Maripasoula, which is accessible by chartered and daily scheduled fixed-wing aircraft from Cayenne.
The property is underlain by a meta-volcano-sedimentary sequence of the Paramaca Formation. Gold mineralization, generally associated with pyrite and quartz-carbonate veins and veinlets, is hosted in two distinct units of this volcano-sedimentary sequence. These units are lens-shaped bodies of felsic intrusive, described for the most part as a quartz-monzonite (A and C-L zones), and mylonitic, sericitized rocks, associated with felsic volcanics and tuffs (B zone). Both contain more or less intense quartz veining, with pyrite and carbonate alteration.
From 1989 to 1993, 70 core drill holes totaling 12,548 m, over 13,000 m of motorized auger drilling (to an average depth of 25 m), 10,000 m of hand auguring, 4,000 soil samples and 1,990 m of trenching were undertaken by the BHP/BRGM joint venture on the Yaou permits. Four exploration core drilling target areas in the central Yaou area were identified.
Yaou - Work Program
During 1996, Guyanor spent a total of $1.1 million the Yaou project, of which $1.0 million was reimbursed by Cambior under the above-mentioned agreement.
During the first six months of 1996, an evaluation was completed using all exploration data gathered at Yaou by both Guyanor and the previous owners, BRGM and BHP, with the purpose of developing a new geologic model of the known mineralized area. On September 11, 1996, Guyanor and the Company announced the results of this work. A reserve estimation was completed on the Yaou Central and Chaina zones based on results from 130 drill holes for a total of 24,416 m, approximately 40,000 m of augering and approximately 10 km of trenching. Cambior calculated a probable reserve of approximately 10.3 million tonnes grading 2.7 g Au/t, representing approximately 876,000 oz of gold in situ. The probable reserve is part of total ore zone established by Cambior at July 31, 1996 of approximately 13 million tonnes grading 2.5 g Au/t. Over 90% of the probable reserves at Yaou are hosted at Yaou Central, totaling 9.2 million tonnes grading 2.8 g Au/t.
In late 1996, 30 core holes, totaling 4,394 m, were drilled to confirm and add to the databases on the mineralized deposits at Yaou Central and Chaina and to expand the known deposits. Drilling in the "A" zone of Yaou Central intercepted mineralization in each of nine holes exhibiting a weighted average grade of approximately 3.6 g Au/t with an average intercept length of approximately 18 m. In the "B" zone, three of four holes intercepted mineralization exhibiting a weighted average grade of approximately 4.0 g Au/t over an average intercept length of approximately 15 m. Drilling in the "C-L" zone intercepted mineralization exhibiting a weighted average grade of approximately 2.2 g Au/t over an average intercept length of approximately 7 m. At the lower grade Chaina zone, six of nine drill holes intercepted mineralization exhibiting a weighted average grade of approximately 1.5 g Au/t over an average intercept length of 12 m.
The 1997 budget for the Yaou project anticipates 10,000 m of core drilling. The purpose of this drilling includes step- out and infill drilling to expand the known deposits laterally and at depth as well as identify new zones of mineralization within the Yaou Central and Chaina areas that could be mined by open pit and provide sufficient resource potential to justify commencing a feasibility study for the development of a full scale mining operation.
Outside the Yaou Central and Chaina zones, drilling is also planned for the I, J and K zones located approximately 1.5 km northeast of Yaou Central, along the same strike orientation. Continued regional exploration to define additional mineralization which could be mined by open pit on the remainder of the 150 km(2) Yaou property is planned on three zones of interest which have been identified and warrant follow-up exploration, Yaou Nord, Tomantoni and Bois Blanc. The Bois Blanc zone, approximately 10 km north of Yaou Central, will be the initial focus of this work.
The Dorlin Property
The Dorlin permits cover a total area of 150 km(2) (15,000 ha.) and are located some 180 km southwest of Cayenne and 60 km east of Maripasoula. The property is accessible by helicopter some 150 km southwest from the airport at Cayenne. A 500 m airstrip located on the property was re-opened and is suitable for fixed wing aircraft. Access is also available by boat during the rainy season.
The property is underlain by a volcano-sedimentary sequence of the Paramaca Formation lying east of and intruded by younger granitic intrusive rocks. The contact trends generally north-south the length of the property with local inferred offsetting faults. The presence of a basic to ultrabasic north-south lineament has been identified based on a distinctive chromium and nickel geochemical soil anomaly.
Exploration efforts by BRGM and BHP since 1986 consisted of soil geochemical and geological surveys, together with hand auger holes and a total of 19 core drill holes totaling 4,323 m. Core
drilling and surface mapping at the Montagne Nivre area has outlined a hydrothermally altered facies trending north- south intermittently for a strike length of some 5 km with two parallel hydrothermal breccia zones.
Dorlin - Work Program
Exploration work on the Dorlin permits has focused on two zones, the South-Inini and North-Inini zones, situated on two different permits and covering a large area. During 1995, a total of 55 km of lines were cut on these two sectors and a total of 838 soil samples by manual augering and 242 samples by deep augering were taken. Extensive channel sampling of outcrop on the southern end of Montagne Nivre began.
In 1996, outcrop sampling continued and 57 deep auger holes for a total of 565 m were drilled. In the second half of the year, Guyanor drilled 31 core holes, totaling approximately 2,000 m, and recompiled results from the 1986 BRGM-BHP drilling program, 19 holes, totaling approximately 4,323 m. Guyanor's drilling focused on the Sud Nivre zone on a prominent ridge known as Montagne Nivre while the BRGM-BHP drilling focused on the West Nivre zone to the north of Sud Nivre and on the west flank of Montagne Nivre. Guyanor established the presence of two zones of mineralization approximately 40 to 50 m wide over a strike length of approximately 750 m. Mineralization was encountered in approximately 74% of the core holes drilled by Guyanor, exhibiting average widths of 9.8 m at a weighted average grade of 1.9 g Au/t. Drilling conducted by the BRGM and BHP on the West Nivre zone and across the northern extension of the zones drilled by Guyanor encountered mineralization in approximately 79% of the core holes drilled, exhibiting average widths of 9.9 m at a weighted average grade of 1.9 g Au/t. Drilling to date has indicated the presence of mineralization over a strike length of approximately 1.5 km on the far southern end of a major hydrothermal breccia system which has been identified continuously over 5 km and discontinuously over an additional 4 km.
Late in 1996, a second, 2,400 m drilling campaign was initiated to test gold mineralization discovered by Guyanor at greater depths and to infill drill on the zones of mineralization discovered by BRGM-BHP. By the end of the year, 4 holes, totaling 607 m, were completed. A bulldozer was also shipped in parts up the Inini River and reassembled on the project. Trenching was initiated and 199 m of trenches were opened. Guyanor incurred exploration expenditures for the Dorlin project of $1.0 million for 1996, all of which were reimbursed by Cambior under the above-mentioned agreement.
The work program for 1997 calls for continued soil and auger sampling, trenching and 8,000 m of core drilling. The objectives for the program are to develop minable resources on the South-Inini area and carry out the investigation in the North-Inini area, which host three intrusive related targets known as Jadfar, Sept Kilo and Dartagnan.
PAUL-ISNARD AND EAU-BLANCHE
On October 29, 1994, Guyanor acquired its interest in the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche properties by way of its acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of SOTRAPMAG, a company incorporated under the laws of France and based in French Guiana. SOTRAPMAG holds a 99.7% interest in SGM, a societe en nom collectif incorporated under the laws of France, also based in French Guiana. Guyanor also directly acquired the 0.3% interest in SGM not owned by SOTRAPMAG. SOTRAPMAG holds, directly or indirectly, eight mineral concessions (the "Paul-Isnard Concessions") and four type "B" exploration permits (the "Eau-Blanche Permits").
Pursuant to an agreement (the "Cermi Agreement") dated October 29, 1994, between SOTRAPMAG and Cermi S.A.R.L. ("Cermi"), a corporation owned by the previous owners of SOTRAPMAG, SOTRAPMAG granted Cermi the exclusive right to exploit alluvial minerals on a portion (the "Elysee Creek area") of two of the Paul-Isnard Concessions for a period of three years, renewable for an additional seven years. During the renewal period, SOTRAPMAG may, at its discretion, terminate the Cermi Agreement upon 90 days' notice. In consideration for this grant, Cermi agreed to pay SOTRAPMAG a royalty of 2.5% of the gross proceeds from the sale of gold produced from Cermi's alluvial operations in the Elysee Creek area. Cermi is also allowed to build an airstrip near the Elysee Creek area provided it allows SOTRAPMAG use of the airstrip. SOTRAPMAG reserved the right to conduct exploration in the Elysee Creek area provided Cermi's exploitation rights are not interfered with. In addition, SOTRAPMAG has reserved the right under certain limited conditions to carry out any alluvial operations in the Elysee Creek area which it considers necessary to maintain its alluvial exploitation on the Paul-Isnard Concessions in the event it does not have exploitable reserves elsewhere on the Paul-Isnard Concessions. Cermi has granted SOTRAPMAG the option to acquire an interest in any primary mineral deposits discovered under any exploration permits which Cermi may obtain in the future covering areas adjacent to the Paul-Isnard property.
Joint Venture with LaSource and ASARCO
In conjunction with Guyanor's acquisition of SOTRAPMAG, BRGM has renounced in favor of Guyanor, an option which BRGM received from Alcatel Alsthom Compagnie Generale d'Electricite to the primary deposits under the eight Paul-Isnard Concessions. In consideration for such renunciation, Guyanor agreed to pay BRGM FF2.5 million (approximately $505,000) in four installments ending December 31, 1996.
On June 26, 1996, SOTRAPMAG entered into a joint venture agreement to give LaSource Developpement S.A. ("LaSource") a 25% participating interest in the exploration and exploitation of primary gold deposits on the Paul-Isnard and Eau- Blanche projects. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, ASARCO has two separate options to acquire a 50% interest in SOTRAPMAG's remaining interest in the primary deposits on each of the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects. In order to acquire its interests in one of these projects, ASARCO is obligated, by June 2001, to complete a feasibility study on the project and to spend at least $10 million on such project, or to combine the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects into a single project. SOTRAPMAG's share of expenditures will be funded by ASARCO. ASARCO is also obligated to use its best efforts to obtain financing on a project finance basis for 80% of project development costs, with SOTRAPMAG and ASARCO each contributing 37.5% and LaSource contributing 25% of the remainder of such costs. Guyanor will act as project manager for the exploration phase at the Paul-Isnard and Eau Blanche project areas, while ASARCO, once vested, has the right to act as the manager of any resulting feasibility study and exploitation.
ASARCO may withdraw from either project and terminate its right to vest its participating interest in such project at any time by giving written notice to SOTRAPMAG 90 days prior to the end of the current program period for such joint venture.
The Properties
The Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche properties are located in the western part of French Guiana, some 200 km west of the capital city of Cayenne. The properties are accessed from St-Laurent-du-Maroni, either by air, at a distance of 75 km to the south, or by means of a 115 km-long laterite road. The first 62 km section of this road is maintained by the government and the remaining 53 km section is maintained by SOTRAPMAG.
There are two prominent mountain chains bordering the properties which form the edges of a basin in which alluvial gold deposits have accumulated. The Company believes this alluvial gold originated from gold-bearing rocks from Decou-Decou and Lucifer mountains and was transported downward by high-energy streams, concentrating the gold in the gravel beds of streams in the Citron area of the Paul-Isnard property. The Decou-Decou mountain to the south of the property is formed of volcanic rocks that, at the summit, are covered by degraded lateritic layers. The Lucifer mountain to the north-east is formed of basic intrusive rocks. The basin between the mountains is underlain by a Proterozoic sequence of mafic to felsic volcanics and clastic sediments of the Paramaca and Bonidoro groups, cut by ultramafics to felsic intrusives.
Work Program
To the Company's knowledge, little systematic exploration has been conducted on the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche properties in search of primary gold. Management believes that there are at least two virtually unexplored occurrences which may constitute possible sources of alluvial gold on the properties. An airborne radiometric and magnetometric geophysical survey over the properties was carried out recently by Guyanor as part of a survey of all of Guyanor's properties.
Guyanor began an exploration program in 1995 to identify and define the primary deposits that may have contributed to the formation of the alluvial gold deposits. An outcrop sampling program, involving approximately 746 channel samples, outlined a zone of strongly sheared, mineralized felsic volcanic rocks approximately 2 km in length yielding an average gold grade of approximately 2.0 g Au/t over significant widths.
A core drilling campaign in 1996 targeted approximately 1.1 km of the strike length of this zone and involved the completion of 18 holes totaling 3,232 m. Gold mineralization was found to be associated with the presence of sulfides, primarily pyrite, pyrrhotite, arsenopyrite and chalcopyrite. Mineralization encountered within the felsic volcanic unit at depth over the strike length drilled appears to be consistent with a massive sulfide ("VMS") type of mineralization similar to deposits currently being mined along the Cadillac Break in Quebec, Canada. Of particular interest is semi- massive to massive sulfide mineralization encountered in two holes. Polymetallic assays on semi-massive to massive sulfide mineralization intersected in one hole yielded weighted average metal grades of 3.7 g Au/t, 17 g/t silver, approximately 0.3% copper and trace zinc values, within a larger, 25 m interval with an average weighted grade of 2.8 g Au/t.
On the Paul-Isnard project, two new prospective zones were identified during 1996, Emmanuel and Elysee. At Emmanuel, geological mapping, rock channel sampling, soil geochemistry and ground magnetic surveys have been carried out. The Emmanuel gold anomaly appears to be situated at the contact between the Paramaca greenstone and the Upper Detritic sedimentary formation. Mineralization is associated with quartz veining. At Elysee, channel sampling inside old adits from the Bureau Minier Guyanais indicated anomalous grades of gold. A detailed geological survey was
initiated. Total expenditures by all parties for 1996 were $1.4 million for Paul-Isnard and $0.1 million for Eau-Blanche, with joint venture recoveries totaling $1.5 million for the two projects in 1996. Guyanor's share of these expenditures were funded by ASARCO.
The work program planned for 1997 includes ground geophysical surveys on Montagne d'Or, including induced polarization ("IP"), magnetics and downhole electro magnetics ("EM"). This work is intended to assist in preparing a core drilling program at Montagne d'Or. Additional geochemistry, ground magnetic surveys and trenching are planned for Emmanuel and Elysee in order to prepare core drilling program for the targets. A core drilling budget of 4,500 m has been budgeted to test the Paul-Isnard targets during 1997.
Mining Operations
SOTRAPMAG commenced alluvial gold production at the Paul-Isnard property in 1987. SOTRAPMAG has experienced continuing operating losses since its acquisition by Guyanor in 1994 with operating losses of $1.8 million in 1995 and $2.4 million in 1996. Outside consultants engaged in 1996 to review the operations and make recommendations on how to make the operations profitable concluded that without a significant capital investment to increase production, changes in certain work practices and a reduction in fuel taxes, the operation could not achieve profitability. As a result of these conclusions, Guyanor began implementation of a program to discontinue alluvial operations conducted by SOTRAPMAG and lay off all of SOTRAPMAG's employees. This procedure is subject to negotiations with the representatives of the workers and French authorities. The French government was formally notified of the closure plans in January 1997. In March 1997, the deadline for French government opposition to the closure plan expired, with no such opposition expressed by the government. Management currently anticipates to substantially complete the closure of the plan and local rehabilitation in the second quarter of 1997.
Guyanor and the Company, through its ownership interest in Guyanor, incurred a fourth quarter charge to 1996 earnings of $3.2 million resulting from the write-down of certain fixed assets, inventories, capitalized exploration costs related to the alluvial mining operations, accrual of land rehabilitation and mine closure costs, and accrual of the severance and other costs associated with the discontinuation of alluvial production. The Company's share of these losses at December 31, 1996, was $2.2 million, after minority interest. Certain fixed assets, equipment and inventories owned by SOTRAPMAG will be utilized in the ongoing exploration at the Paul-Isnard project area and were not subject to the write-down. The final amount of severance and other costs associated with the discontinuation of alluvial production are contingent upon negotiations with the representatives of the workers and the French government. Guyanor also expects to incur operating losses of approximately $0.5 million during the first quarter of 1997.
Exploration efforts conducted in 1996 have identified several target areas which hold potential to establish near surface mining reserves. Guyanor has budgeted approximately $1.0 million in 1997 for prospecting activities aimed at quantifying a near-surface mineralized inventory at the Paul-Isnard project area. This program is in addition to the hard rock exploration planned for 1997 which will be funded by ASARCO and LaSource, the Company's joint venture partners at the Paul-Isnard project area.
REGINA EST
On April 26, 1994, Guyanor was granted a type "B" exploration permit covering a property known as Regina Est, located in northeastern French Guiana, 15 km southeast of the town of Regina and 80 km southeast of Cayenne. No significant work was conducted on the property in 1996. The permit, unless renewed, will expire on May 1, 1998.
DACHINE
In June 1995, Guyanor was granted a type "B" exploration permit by the French government covering a 25 km(2) area in southwest French Guiana known as Dachine (formerly known as Inini). An application was filed in December of 1995 for a type "A" permit covering an area of 337 km(2) which would include the current type "B" permit.
BHP and Guyanor entered into an agreement in December 1995 whereby BHP would earn a 51% interest in the Dachine project by spending $3.5 million by May 31, 1998. In March 1997, BHP gave notice of its intent to withdraw from the agreement effective as of March 31, 1997. The Company and Guyanor intend to continue diamond exploration on the Dachine area and may seek new joint venture partners. There can be no assurance that Guyanor will be successful in finding a partner or that the funds required for the development of the Dachine project can be obtained by Guyanor.
The Property
The property is a square, 5x5 km permit area accessible only by helicopter or, during the rainy season by canoe from Maripasoula. Microdiamonds were found for the first time in 1983 in alluvium/colluvium by BRGM during strategic prospecting work for the Mineral Inventory of French Guiana. No further exploration was conducted at Dachine until Guyanor, after examining the existing literature and conducting preliminary reconnaissance in the field, applied for a type B permit, which was granted in June 1995.
Work Program
In August 1994, an aeromagnetic and radiometric survey was carried out over the area of the B permit. Specific magnetic anomalies were highlighted by the geologists to be potential kimberlitic-type anomalies. In October 1995, petrographic facies were identified as being meta-kimberlite and/or meta-lamproite rocks, hosted in metavolcanics and volcaniclastics. In late 1995, a core drilling program was initiated at the Dachine site involving 10 holes totaling approximately 970 m.
On March 1, 1996, the Company and Guyanor reported the discovery within the Dachine permit area of a metamorphosed ultramafic structure that can be traced over a minimum dimension of approximately 3.5 km in length and 0.5 km in width. Final results from the initial exploration program, announced on May 22, 1996, exhibited significant diamond counts from microdiamond analysis on auger and core drill holes that intersected the main body with a total of 8,970 stones recovered from approximately 1,164 kg of core and auger samples. Additionally, a total of 976 stones were recovered from microdiamond analysis on approximately 387 kg of outcrop and soil samples collected during the initial exploration program.
Additional exploration activity at the Dachine project during the summer of 1996 focused on geologic mapping, auger drilling and stream sediment sample processing. An additional 30 deep auger holes
were drilled in fences across the Dachine diamondiferous body to determine geologic contacts and better define the surface expression of the body. This work, in addition to the discovery of additional outcrop, has confirmed the continuation of the diamondiferous body over the entire distance of the Dachine "B" permit (5 km) with widths varying from approximately 350 m to 1,000 m. Results were reported from processing completed at the Company's Georgetown, Guyana laboratory of 31 stream sediment samples collected from creeks draining the Dachine body. A total of 7,824 diamonds were recovered from 700 liters of samples, including 7,009 microdiamonds (measuring less than 0.5 mm across their longest dimension) and 815 macrodiamonds (measuring greater than 0.5 mm across their longest dimension). Macrodiamonds were reported in all the samples, the largest stone measuring 2.7 mm in its longest dimension.
These results led to the decision to proceed with an initial bulk sample at Dachine. Following the evaluation of various alternatives to conduct a small initial bulk sample for diamond recovery and macrodiamond analysis, logistical considerations dictated the excavation of pits to collect approximately 200 tonnes of material. Sample collection began in late August. A gravity jig plant was subsequently commissioned at the Dachine site and began operating in September 1996. Excavation was completed in ten pits (DAC-01 - 10) collected at select sites over the strike length of the diamondiferous body, totaling approximately 207 tonnes of material. Processing of approximately 186 tonnes of material was completed in December 1996 to produce approximately 3,000 kg of heavy mineral concentrate. The heavy mineral concentrate was shipped to BHP's Mineral Laboratory in Reno, Nevada for diamond recovery in late December.
Processing of the heavy mineral concentrate sample was undertaken to recover only macrodiamonds larger than 1.25 mm in their longest dimension. On February 24, 1997, the Company and Guyanor announced that processing of the bulk sample recovered an insignificant number of stones larger than 1.25 mm. Upon review of final results, BHP decided to withdraw from the Heads of Agreement with Guyanor. Guyanor intends to continue diamond exploration in the Dachine area and may seek new joint venture partners. There can be no assurance that Guyanor will be successful in finding a new partner or that funds required for the development of the Dachine project can be obtained by Guyanor.
Guyanor is presently in the process of developing a program for additional exploration at Dachine. The object of the program will be to try and better characterize the geology and commercial potential of the large, Dachine diamondiferous ultramafic body. During 1996, Guyanor spent $1.2 million for exploration at the Dachine property, $1.1 million of which was reimbursed by BHP under the above-mentioned agreement.
AFRICAN PROPERTIES
GENERAL
All of the Company's interests in mineral properties located in Africa are held through PARC. PARC was established under the Yukon Business Corporations Act on February 6, 1996, as a result of the amalgamation, i.e., the merger and continuation as one company (the "PARC Amalgamation"), of Humlin Red Lake Mines Limited, an Ontario corporation ("Humlin"), and PARC Yukon, which was then an approximately 85% owned subsidiary of the Company. As a result of the PARC
Amalgamation, PARC was vested with all former assets and liabilities of PARC Yukon and Humlin and is engaged in the business carried on by them, being the exploration for and development of precious mineral properties.
As a result of the completion of a private placement of 13.2 million units of PARC Yukon on February 5, 1996 (as described below) and the completion of the PARC Amalgamation, PARC became approximately 60% owned by the Company. PARC also became a publicly traded company on February 8, 1996, with its common shares quoted on the Canadian Dealing Network.
The private placement of 13.2 million units at Cdn$1.00 per unit generated net proceeds to PARC Yukon of approximately $9.0 million after payment of commissions and expenses. Each unit consisted of one PARC Yukon common share and one-half of one PARC Yukon Series A warrant. Each whole Series A warrant entitles the holder to purchase one PARC Yukon common share at a price of Cdn$1.25 until November 1, 1996. On October 31, 1996, the expiration date of the Series A warrants was extended to January 31, 1997. As at January 31, 1997, 1,063,500 warrants were exercised providing proceeds of $1.0 million. The remaining 5,536,500 warrants expired unexercised. As a result of the PARC Amalgamation, all outstanding PARC Yukon and Humlin shares were exchanged for PARC shares according to ratios approved by their respective shareholders at a special meeting held on January 12, 1996. In addition, all outstanding PARC Yukon Series A warrants were exchanged for PARC Series A warrants.
Prior to the PARC Amalgamation, indebtedness in the amount of $12.3 million owed to the Company by PARC Barbados as of December 11, 1995, was converted under the terms of two convertible debentures by the Company into 24,881,632 common shares of PARC Barbados. Upon completion of these loan conversions, 24,881,632 shares held by the Company in PARC Barbados were surrendered for cancellation in exchange for the issuance to the Company of 7,975,000 warrants of PARC Barbados, each warrant entitling the Company to purchase one share of PARC Barbados at Cdn$1.50 until July 15, 1997. After the PARC Amalgamation, the PARC Barbados warrants were surrendered to PARC Barbados in exchange for the issuance by PARC to the Company of 7,975,000 PARC Series B warrants. Each PARC Series B warrant entitles the Company to purchase one PARC common share at Cdn$1.50 until July 15, 1997.
The mineral properties in which PARC has an interest are located in several countries in Africa: Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Mali and Sierra Leone. PARC's interests in the properties are held by way of option agreements or exploitation, exploration, prospecting or reconnaissance permits, licenses, authorizations or rights. PARC's indirect acquisition of certain of its interests are still subject to applicable governmental approvals. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted. Moreover, all of the properties are without a known body of commercial ore and the limited activities by PARC on the properties to date have been exploratory in nature and the results have been disappointing. PARC's principal objectives are to explore and continue to acquire mineral properties in Africa with significant potential as and when appropriate opportunities present themselves and to conduct exploration and, if warranted, subsequent development of mineral deposits on its properties.
PARC and its wholly owned subsidiary, PARC Barbados, are hereinafter referred to collectively as "PARC".
During 1996, PARC spent $5.9 million on continued exploration and property acquisition. Budgeted 1997 exploration and reconnaissance expenditures for PARC total $4.5 million.
GABON PROPERTIES
The Republique Gabonaise ("Gabon") is located on the west coast of Africa along the equator, covers an area of 268,000 km(2) and has a population of about 1.1 million people. Formerly a French colony, Gabon gained independence in 1960 and is currently governed as a democratic republic. The legal and land title systems are based on French law, the official language is French, and the government retains strong ties with France.
KOLISSEN
The Company was granted a three-year exploration permit (the "Kolissen Exploration Permit"), expiring on August 22, 1998, covering over 2,670 km(2) of the Kolissen property. As of November 29, 1995, the Company formally assigned its rights to the Kolissen Exploration Permit to PARC, subject to approval of the Gabon government. The Kolissen Exploration Permit requires a minimum of approximately $0.5 million to be expended on exploration work on the property during the three-year term and preparation of a geological map of the Kolissen property at 1:100,000 scale.
On February 18, 1997, the Company and PARC signed an option agreement with Adamas Resources Corp. ("Adamas") granting Adamas the sole and exclusive option to acquire a 50% interest in all of the Company's current and future rights to the Kolissen property. The option agreement is subject to acceptance by the Vancouver Stock Exchange ("VSE"). In order to maintain its rights under the option, Adamas must incur minimum exploration expenditures on the Kolissen property of at least $0.5 million during the first 12 months following the date Adamas receives regulatory approval from the VSE and $1.5 million during the following 18-month period. Should Adamas fail to make the required expenditures within the prescribed deadlines, it will be required to pay the amount of the shortfall to PARC in cash or capital stock in Adamas or an interest in mineral rights owned by Adamas with a fair value equivalent to the shortfall, subject to PARC's approval. Assuming VSE approval is obtained, Adamas intends to conduct the work program on the Kolissen property during 1997.
MALI PROPERTIES
PARC has indirect interests in the Dioulafoundou and Melgue properties located in the Republique du Mali ("Mali"). Mali is a land-locked country covering an area of 1.24 million km(2) in Northwest Africa. Mali has a population of approximately nine million people, most of whom are Muslim. The country borders the southern edge of the Sahara desert and over 70% of its land area is desert or semi-desert. Formerly a French colony, Mali achieved independence in 1960 and has been governed as a democratic republic since 1992. The legal and land title systems of the country are based on French law and the official language is French.
DIOULAFOUNDOU
PARC has an indirect interest in a small scale exploitation authorization and an exploration permit, which cover a 28 km(2) area in Mali referred to as the Dioulafoundou property.
Dioulafoundou Exploitation Authorization
PARC's interest in the exploitation authorization comprising part of the Dioulafoundou property was formalized in an agreement dated October 13, 1995 (the "AFC Agreement"), among PARC,
D'Almeida Freres et Compagnie ("AFC"), an unrelated Mali corporation, the four shareholders of AFC (the "AFC Shareholders") and the Company. PARC subsequently transferred its rights to PARC Dioulafoundou Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of PARC. AFC is the holder of the Dioulafoundou exploitation authorization which was granted on December 6, 1993 for a term of five years, subject to renewal for a further five years. The exploitation authorization covers 4 km(2) and is located in the Kenieba District, Administrative Region I, of Mali.
Pursuant to the AFC Agreement, PARC Dioulafoundou acquired from the AFC Shareholders an aggregate of 75% of the outstanding shares of AFC (the "AFC Shares"), subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. The purchase price of the AFC Shares totaled $520,000, less the amount of certain of AFC's liabilities at the date of the transfer of the shares. The purchase price, as so adjusted, is payable as to $80,000 on each of October 31, 1995, 1996, 1997 and 1998 and the balance by October 31, 1999, subject to acceleration of the payments to the date a feasibility study commissioned by PARC Dioulafoundou on the property is accepted by the Mali government. PARC Dioulafoundou may terminate the agreement at any time without any further obligations or liabilities. Prior to entering into the AFC Agreement, PARC had paid a total of $175,000 in connection with an initial 180-day option on the Dioulafoundou exploitation authorization.
Pursuant to the AFC Agreement, PARC Dioulafoundou granted to Mr. D'Almeida (a previous shareholder of AFC) the right to conduct the alluvial operation on the Dioulafoundou exploitation authorization. During 1996, neither Mr. D'Almeida nor PARC Dioulafoundou conducted any exploitation operations as required under the exploitation authorization. As a result, the Government of Mali could, pursuant to the Mining Code of Mali, send to AFC a three-month notice asking AFC to conduct exploitation activities in accordance with the exploitation authorization failing which AFC could lose title to the property. To the knowledge of the Company, management of AFC has not received such notice from the Government of Mali. Should AFC receive such notice, PARC Dioulafoundou would try to cure such default.
The Dioulafoundou exploitation authorization is located in a district where only small scale mining operations are generally allowed by the Mali government (for example, each exploitation authorization is generally for a deposit not exceeding five tonnes of gold). Since there can be no assurance that, in the event of the discovery of a larger mineral deposit, an exploitation permit (for larger deposit) covering the entire deposit will be obtainable, it is the intention of PARC Dioulafoundou to apply for the issuance of an exploration permit covering the existing Dioulafoundou exploitation authorization area so as to avoid the incurrence of significant exploration expenditures without the assurance of obtaining, if warranted, an authorization permit for a larger mineral deposit. Such an exploration permit is only available for potentially larger scale mineral deposits and would be for a term of three years, with up to two renewals of one year each. The holder of such an exploration permit also obtains the first right to acquire an exploitation permit for the applicable area, entitling the holder to exclusive exploitation rights in relation to the area for a maximum period of up to 30 years (including renewals). There can be no assurance, however, that the Mali government will grant the desired exploration permit or any eventual exploitation permits to PARC.
Fougala Exploration Permit
In May 1995 PARC acquired, subject to governmental approval, three contiguous prospecting authorizations of 8 km(2) each from three individuals unrelated to PARC. The prospecting authorization
entitles its holder to a small scale exploitation authorization with the problems described above. Consequently, PARC, with the approval of the three prospecting authorization holders, created a company under the laws of Mali (PARC Fougala S.A.) and applied for an exploitation permit covering the three prospecting authorizations. In January 1997, PARC Fougala was granted an exploration permit covering the three prospecting authorizations. The exploration permit is now referred to as the Fougala Exploration Permit. In February 1997, PARC Fougala entered into an agreement with the three owners of the previous prospecting authorizations. Pursuant to the agreement, they will be entitled to receive as a group a net smelter royalty of 1.6% on any gold production on the Fougala permit. PARC Fougala must also complete a feasibility study by February 2002. Should PARC Fougala fail to do so, it will have to transfer its interest in the exploration permit to the previous owners of the prospecting authorizations.
Option granted to African Selection Mining Corporation
On March 7, 1997, PARC granted African Selection Mining Corporation ("ASM") the three-year option to acquire 50% of the issued and outstanding shares of PARC Dioulafoundou and PARC Fougala (see below). In order to maintain its rights under the option, ASM must incur exploration expenditures on the properties of at least $4.5 million prior to October 31, 1999 with $450,000 during the period commencing March 1, 1997 and ending September 30, 1997 ("Phase I"), $1.5 million during the period commencing October 1, 1997 and ending September 30, 1998, and $2.5 million during the period commencing October 1, 1998 and ending October 31, 1999. Should ASM fail to make the required $450,000 in expenditures for Phase I within the prescribed deadline, it will be required to pay the amount of the shortfall to PARC in cash, subject to certain contingencies.
The Property
The Dioulafoundou property is located in the Kenieba District of western Mali, situated approximately 350 km west of Bamako, the country's capital, and 170 km south of the town of Kayes (population 50,000). The Dioulafoundou property is accessible by four wheel drive vehicle from Kayes over 228 km of dirt road. A 1,500 m gravel airstrip, accessible by fixed wing charter aircraft from Bamako, is located 10 km south-southeast of the property.
Local miners have long produced unknown quantities of gold from alluvial deposits in the Kenieba district. Modern exploration of the Dioulafoundou property commenced in 1993, and pitting and sampling programs, as well as some small- scale alluvial mining, were carried on during the next year.
The region in which the Dioulafoundou property lies is part of the West African Shield. The property area lies within the exposed early Proterozoic Kenieba inlier that straddles the Mali/Senegal border, composed primarily of thick Birimian volcanic and sedimentary formations that trend generally north-south and northeast-southwest.
Work Program
The main objective of PARC's work completed to date at the Dioulafoundou project has been to establish the presence of economically attractive gold mineralization within the prospect area. During the first half of 1996, PARC completed a mechanical augering program for geochemical analysis consisting of 355 holes totaling 4,548 m over the whole of the Dioulafoundou project. A 65-hole, 4,200 m reverse circulation ("RC") drilling program was completed in July 1996. This RC program confirmed the north-south striking mineralization identified by previous core drilling with near surface
mineralized intersections with an average width of 2.9 m and a weighted average grade of 2.4 g Au/t. Gold mineralization also was encountered on part of the Fougala permit which comprises the south and southeast border of the Dioulafoundou project. These mineralized zones are characterized as near surface, narrow zones with gold grades ranging from 1.3 to 3.2 g Au/t. An early and intense rainy season caused postponement of RC drilling near the extensive Kerekou artisanal working on the Magassa permit.
During the second half of 1996, PARC conducted a systematic termite mound sampling program over the entire property involving approximately 250 samples. This work identified additional area of anomalous gold values on the on the border of the Fougala and AFC permits. During 1996, the Company spent $0.8 million on exploration at the Dioulafoundou project.
The work program for 1997 to be conducted by ASM is anticipated to involve induced polarization ("IP") geophysical surveys to assist in better defining potential gold bearing structures. Additional geochemistry, including termite mound sampling, will be completed. Based upon results of this work, it is anticipated that ASM will conduct a core and RC drilling program to continue the evaluation of the property during 1997.
MELGUE
PARC entered into a mineral agreement dated October 18, 1995 (the "Melgue Mineral Agreement") with the Government of Mali represented by the Ministry of Mines, Energy and Hydrology for the Melgue property. The Melgue Mineral Agreement has a term of up to 30 years and provides for the issuance of an exploration permit for a 220 km(2) area of the Melgue property and, if applicable, the issuance of further mining permits for the development and exploitation of the property. The exploration permit covering the Melgue property was granted to PARC on December 11, 1995, for a period of three years.
PARC has committed to spend at least $680,000 in connection with the Melgue property during the first 24 months following the grant of the exploration permit on December 11, 1995. A three-phase initial work program is planned, with the first phase to be completed within one year at a minimum expenditure of $180,000. Estimated work expenditures for the second and third phases are $0.5 million and $1.6 million, respectively.
The Property
The Melgue property is located approximately 60 km north of the regional centre of Kayes in western Mali. The project area is just west of the village of Aourou, which is about a 4 to 5 hour drive from Kayes in a 4-wheel drive vehicle. The permit area is flat with sparse vegetation as it is on the edge of the Sahara desert. Very high temperatures during both day and night are common in the period from February to April making field work difficult.
Regional scale soil sampling was carried out by Kloeckner, a German company, over the property as part of a larger survey in the late 1980s. The Kloeckner work identified a number of distinct gold anomalies which require more detailed investigation. Limited follow-up work in this area by the Mali Ministry of Geology and Mines has shown encouraging results.
PARC geologists conducted a preliminary examination of the property in late 1994 and visited the area again in early 1995. They visited five different areas which are identified by soil sample values ranging from 75 to 103 ppb Au. Soil sample values of this magnitude are considered anomalous. Rock chip samples collected by the Mali Ministry of Geology and Mines on one of these features assayed up to 3.1 g Au/t. Panned samples collected by PARC from four of these areas contained gold grains. Among the geological features indicative of mineralization seen at these locations were altered, sulphide bearing diorite and andesite, breccia, quartz stockworks and altered carbonate units.
The local geology of the property area consists of Lower Proterozoic metavolcanics and pyroclastic rocks of the Boutounguissi Formation. These were intruded by granites and granodiorites in the eastern third of the property area.
Work Program
Initial exploration activity on the Melgue property consisted of a detailed stream sediment geochemistry program. Samples were collected at a density of approximately one per km(2) and analyzed for gold. During 1996, soil sampling, mapping and rock chip sampling were also carried out. Approximately 67 km of line was cut with 675 soil and 77 rock samples collected. This work identified two principal anomalous areas trending north-south through the center of the property. During 1996, $0.1 million was spent for exploration on the Melgue property. During 1997, additional close spaced soil sampling and geologic mapping is planned to further define the anomalies. This is expected to be followed by RC drilling to test the anomalous zones at depth.
IVORY COAST PROPERTIES
Subject to relevant governmental approval, PARC has acquired an indirect interest in certain exploration permits with respect to the Comoe property, located in the Republique de Cote d'Ivoire ("Ivory Coast"). Ivory Coast is located on the southern coastline of West Africa, covers an area of 322,000 km(2) and has a population of about 12 million people. Formerly a French colony, Ivory Coast achieved independence in 1960 and is currently governed as a democratic republic. The legal and land title systems of the country are based on French law and the official language is French.
COMOE
On January 10, 1995, the Company and the Ministry of Mines and Energy of the Ivory Coast executed a Protocole d'Accord (the "Comoe Agreement") authorizing the Company to prospect in the Nassian-Bondoukou area, also known in the Ivory Coast as the Comoe area. Under the terms of the Comoe Agreement, the Company was granted exclusive reconnaissance rights over a 15,000 km(2) area of the Comoe property until December 1, 1995, together with the right to apply for exploration permits in respect of up to 25% of the Comoe property area (i.e., up to 3,750 km(2)) by that date. The reconnaissance work included an airborne geophysical survey and ground reconnaissance programs in respect of up to 25% of the Comoe property area. Where the existence of a commercially exploitable deposit is demonstrated, an exploration permit may subsequently be converted, under certain conditions, into an exploitation permit covering the deposit area. As of December 1996, the Company had been granted 12 exploration permits for gold, diamonds and other precious metals and minerals (with the exception of hydrocarbons) covering a total of approximately 2,760 km(2). The permits are valid for three years and are renewable for up to four additional years. The minimum expenditure requirements for each permit is approximately $170,000 during the three-year permit.
The Company formally assigned as of November 29, 1995 its rights in the Comoe Agreement (and any permits derived therefrom) to PARC, subject to approval of the Ivory Coast government. Prior to the assignment, all work and expenditures relating to the Comoe property in furtherance of the Comoe Agreement had already been supervised and funded through PARC.
The Property
The center of the Comoe property is located approximately 240 km due north of Abidjan, the principal city in Ivory Coast.
The Comoe property is for the most part underlain by Lower Proterozoic Birimian volcano-sedimentary formations of the West African Shield. The central portion of the property is inferred to be underlain predominately by metasedimentary formations. Basic to intermediate volcanics with overlying probably Tarkwan sediments occur within the northeast corner of the property. Granite intrusives occur as small plutons within the central portion of the permit area. Due to limited outcrop, the property is relatively unexplored. Work by SODEMI, a mining company owned by the Republic of Ivory Coast, has confirmed the location of some old artisan gold workings, indicating the possibility of gold source rocks within the permit area.
Work Program
During 1996, follow-up geochemical evaluation of selected gold targets on the Kregbe, Padanian, Tanda and Koutoukounou permits was initiated. A total of 6,641 soil samples, 364 termite mound samples and 251 rock samples were collected and analyzed and 38 old artisanal mining sites were visited. The most prospective anomalies on the Kregbe permit were tested with rotary air blast ("RAB") drilling to a depth of 25 to 30 m. A total of 2,764 m were drilled in 116 holes on 50 m centers. Follow-up ground magnetic surveys were completed over potentially diamond bearing, pipelike structures identified during the 1995 airborne geophysical survey on the Amoriakro, Aougnanou, Dihezue, Klebo, Ouakabessi, Sirakoro and Tetessi permits. Pitting was conducted over the more prospective areas of the magnetic anomalies to provide large samples of in situ rock for mineral analysis. During 1996, the Company spent $1.1 million exploring the Comoe property.
The work program for 1997 is anticipated to involve continued geochemical and geological sampling of additional targets identified during the 1995 reconnaissance exploration program. Infill sampling is planned for the more prospective gold anomalies identified during 1996 on the Padenian, Tanda and Koutoukounou permits to identify targets to be followed-up and tested at depth by RAB drilling. Infill RAB drilling or core drilling is planned for the later half of 1997 to better define the depth extension of mineralization at the principal anomalies on the Kregbe permit.
ETHIOPIA PROPERTIES
Ethiopia, located in northeastern Africa, is the third most populous country in Africa, with approximately 54 million people, and is one of the poorest countries in the world. Ethiopia is one of the few African countries that has never been colonized, except for a limited period of Italian occupation during World War II. The official language is Amharic, but English is commonly spoken. From the mid-1970s to 1991, Ethiopia was in a period of turmoil during which it was engaged in warfare with Eritrea and Tigrai to the north and Somalia to the east, and experienced intermittent years of catastrophic drought leading to famine. Since 1991, Ethiopia has been ruled by the Transitional Government of Ethiopia established by the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front.
DUL MOUNTAIN
PARC has indirectly acquired, subject to relevant governmental approval, an interest in 90 exclusive exploration licenses to explore for gold (the "Dul Mountain Exploration Licenses") for the Dul Mountain property, located in western Ethiopia.
The Dul Mountain Exploration Licenses were granted to the Company pursuant to an agreement dated April 30, 1995 (the "Dul Mountain Agreement") between the Ministry of Mines and Energy of Ethiopia (the "MMEE") and the Company. The Company formally assigned as of November 29, 1995 its rights in the Dul Mountain Agreement (and the exploration licenses and any further licenses) to PARC, subject to approval of the Ethiopian government. Prior to the assignment, all work and expenditures relating to the Dul Mountain property in furtherance of the Dul Mountain Agreement had already been supervised and funded through PARC.
The 90 exploration licenses cover an area of 1,800 km(2), each license being for a 20 km(2) area. The licenses have a term of three years, renewable twice for a period of one year, subject to the license area being reduced by at least 25% upon the first renewal and being further reduced with the subsequent renewal. During 1995, a Phase I work program was undertaken by PARC at a cost of $2.6 million. During the second year, the exploration expenditures commitment were, after negotiation with the government, reduced from $4.05 million to $450,000. Pursuant to the terms of the Dul Mountain Agreement, a further minimum of $9.75 million on exploration of the Dul Mountain property is to be expended over the course of the ensuing three years. The Company provided a bank guarantee of $450,000 with respect to the second year exploration expenditure commitments. The Company must provide a bank guarantee with respect to the exploration expenditures of each year during the term of the licenses, to be drawn on by MMEE in the event and to the extent that the work program has not been carried or out expenditure commitments have not been met.
After reviewing the results of the exploration conducted on the Dul Mountain property, management of PARC concluded in March of 1997 that a large portion of the property does not meet PARC's expectations. The Company and PARC intend to (i) relinquish approximately 75% of the area covered by the Dul Mountain Exploration Licenses during 1997 and (ii) negotiate with MMEE the reduction of the third-year expenditures commitment from $4.5 million to $50,000. There can be no assurance that the MMEE will accept to reduce the third-year work program. As a result of the disappointing results of the exploration program, the Company decided to write-down as at December 31, 1996 capitalized expenditures totaling $4.0 million. The Company's share of this charge was $2.3 million after minority interest.
The Property
The Dul Mountain Exploration License is located approximately 500 km west-northwest of Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, and the western border of the license forms part of Ethiopia's border with Sudan. Access to the property from Addis Ababa, which is serviced by international airlines, is by a combination of asphalt and gravel roads.
History and Previous Work
There are records of small-scale alluvial gold production on the Dul Mountain property for most of this century, with unrecorded production by local miners continuing today. Evidence of previous mining activity on Dul Mountain consists of an old adit and scattered waste/tailing piles. Systematic geological mapping and an airborne geophysical survey in a portion of the property commenced in 1967. Over the ensuing 27 years, four separate exploration programs were carried out on portions of the property, consisting of regional steam sediment and limited soil sampling, further geological mapping and establishment of grids on the three main prospects on the property (Dul, Azale and Ashashire prospects), and, most recently (1993-1994), a program of road building, 850 m of trenching, channel sampling and 697 m of diamond drilling by the Ethiopian Geological Survey.
Geology
The area covered by the Dul Mountain Exploration License lies within the western Ethiopian Shield, which is part of the north-south trending Pan-African-Mozambique Precambrian belt that extends along the east coast of Africa. Previous exploration has identified three gold prospects on the property: Dul Mountain, Azale-Akendeyu and Ashashire. Gold values, generally associated with quartz veining, have been obtained in metavolcanics, cherts and phyllites. Quartz veins varying in width from one centimeter to one meter, follow major shear and foliation directions.
The Dul Mountain property is underlain by north-south trending Precambrian rocks characterized by four lithological groups: metamorphic high grade gneisses, low-grade volcano-sedimentary formations which occur throughout the property, post-syntectonic intrusives of basic and acidic composition; and Cenozoic volcanic rocks consisting of granodiorite, diorite and granite.
The Azale-Akendeyu prospect, located 5 km southwest of the Dul Mountain prospect, covers a north-northeast trending ridge 10 km long, underlain by metamorphosed volcano-sedimentary formations intruded by granitic and ultramafic rocks bounded by older Kurmuk gneisses to the west.
The Ashashire prospect lies immediately northeast of the Dul Mountain prospect and is underlain by rocks that represent a continuation of the metamorphosed volcano-sedimentary formations with ultramafic and granitic intrusions that occur on the Dul Mountain prospect.
Work Program
The main objective of the exploration conducted to date has been to evaluate the entire 1,800 km(2) concession area.
During 1996, continued work in the western part of the property (Dul Mountain, Azale and Ashashire) indicated low potential for defining economically attractive, bulk minable gold deposits and further evaluation ceased. At the Balaute prospect, additional trenching failed to identify gold mineralization below two principal surface anomalies and no further work was undertaken. Following the completion of work at Dul Mountain, Azale, Ashashire and Belaute, PARC's exploration camp was moved to the eastern half of the concession area near the Menghi prospect.
An intensive work program was undertaken at Menghi in an area where extensive artisanal gold mining was being conducted. Following soil sampling and a ground magnetics geophysical survey, trenching was conducted on the principal target at Menghi, a north striking, quartz ridge approximately 600 m long which exhibited strong shearing, alteration and well developed sulfides over from 20 to 40 m with gold mineralization hosted by diorite intrusives in the south and granite in the north. Sixteen trenches were excavated along the strike length of the zone, totaling approximately 555 m, with good results. A 10 hole core drilling program, totaling 1,372 m, was completed to test the potential depth extension of gold mineralization identified in the trenches. Despite the indication of wide zones of economic mineralization in trenches, the core drilling at Menghi failed to replicate economic widths at depth with only narrow quartz veins being intersected. No further work is planned at Menghi.
Some potential still exists in the far eastern part of the Dul Mountain property. This is demonstrated by results from stream sediment geochemistry. The Company is following-up with soil sampling, a program which is still ongoing and will likely not be completed in the current second permit year. The Company intends to relinquish approximately 75% of the concession area, but maintain the balance in the eastern portion so the evaluation of these targets can be completed in the third permit year. It is proposed that a program of approximately $50,000 will be submitted to the Ethiopian authorities for the third-year permit which commences in May 1997.
ERITREA PROPERTIES
Eritrea, located in northeastern Africa, is the newest nation in Africa, having gained its independence from Ethiopia in 1991 after a 30 year civil war. The State of Eritrea consists of ten provinces covering an area of 125,000 km(2) with a population of approximately 3.5 million. Tigrinya, Arabic and English are spoken in Eritrea. A competitive mining code was adopted by the National Assembly in 1995 and a tender for several exploration areas was completed in late 1995, attracting bids from approximately 30 international mining companies. As one of the poorest nations in Africa, Eritrea is actively encouraging development of the country's mineral resources.
GALLA VALLEY
Pursuant to an agreement dated April 19, 1996, with the Ministry of Energy, Mines and Water Resources of Eritrea ("MEMWRE"), the Company and PARC were granted an exclusive exploration license with an initial term of three years and two renewal terms of one year each. The agreement grants the Company and PARC the right to explore over six license areas of 50 km(2) each, for a total area of 300 km(2) in an area known as Galla Valley. The term of the exploration period began on June 3, 1996.
The Company and PARC committed to spend $1.25 million on exploration of the Galla Valley property in the first year of the license. Subject to first year results and final approval, the minimum initial budgeted expenditures by the Company and PARC pursuant to the agreement are $3.0 million in the second year and $5.0 million in the third year of the license. The Company and PARC have provided
a bank guarantee with respect to the exploration expenditure commitment of the first year and must provide a bank guarantee with respect to the exploration expenditures of each other subsequent year during the term of the license, to be drawn on by the MEMWRE in the event and to the extent that the expenditure commitments have not been met.
The Property
The Galla Valley License covers an area 30 km long and 10 km wide, and is located due south of the capital city of Asmara. Infrastructure is good, with a major road on the west side of the License and several roads traversing the License area.
Geology
The greenstones of Eritrea lie within the northern extent of the north-south trending Pan African - Mozambique Precambrian belt that extends along the east coast of Africa. The Galla Valley License is underlain by Proterozoic greenstones and encompasses part of a major hydrothermal system localized by a major, north trending structural break, tens of kilometers long running under the capital city of Asmara. In the early 1900s, vigorous gold mining activity was conducted on the Galla Valley License. At least six small gold recovery plants using stamp mills and cyanide recovery were operated, exploiting both open pit and underground ore bodies. Most notably were the Adi Rassi copper/gold occurrence, mined several times since the sixteenth century, and the Torat gold mine, exploited by the Italians in the early 1900s up to World War II.
Work Program
The Company's Phase I work program for 1996 had two objectives, including the initiation of exploration at the more significant former known gold mines on the License area, Adi Rassi, Torat and Adi Casci, and the initiation of a systematic reconnaissance exploration program over the whole of the Galla Valley License area. During 1996, the Company spent $0.9 million on exploration with respect to the Galla Valley License.
Geochemical surveys were completed over the known gold occurrences, with approximately 1,600 soil samples collected at the Adi Rassi and Adi Casci targets. At Adi Rassi, an initial exploratory core drilling program consisting of four holes totaling approximately 1,134 m was completed to confirm mineralization identified by three previous core drilling campaigns conducted by the Italians in the 1930s, the Ethiopians in the 1960s and the Japanese in the 1970s. The Company's drilling confirmed the existence of wide zones of disseminated copper/gold mineralization related to sulfides, primarily chalcopyrite and to a lesser extent pyrite. In addition to the confirmation of the sulfide related mineralization, drilling also exhibited the presence of sheared and folded quartz veining and stockworks. Though copper/gold mineralization was encountered, sufficient data does not yet exist to confirm or deny resource estimates previous calculated on the basis of the Ethiopian drilling program of 9.8 million tonnes grading approximately 1.3% copper and 0.8 g Au/t. The evaluation of all current and prior information on Adi Rassi will be evaluated to determine if any additional follow-up work at the target is justified.
Limited core drilling was also conducted at the Torat and Adi Casci targets in late 1996. At Torat, two drill holes failed to intersect economically attractive gold mineralization at depth below the existing workings. At Adi Casci, 1,743 m of trenching was completed over a broad anomalous zone identified by soil geochemistry. An initial core drill hole under the Adi Casci trenches intercepted economically
attractive gold mineralization in surficially altered material. Additional follow-up core drilling is planned during 1997 to test the depth potential of mineralization identified by trenching.
As part of the property-wide reconnaissance exploration program, 1,377 soil samples were collected during 1996 along established grid lines. During 1997, the interpretation and integration of all results received during the first year of exploration will be used to determine the second year work program for Galla Valley. Currently, additional drilling is planned at Adi Casci as well as Adi Caieh, an existing target due south of Adi Acasci where encouraging trenching results have warranted follow-up work. Reconnaissance exploration over the whole of the Galla Valley area will be completed and new areas of anomalous gold will be followed-up with closely spaced soil sampling and trenching.
KENYA PROPERTY
Kenya, located in eastern Africa on the equator, is a former British colony which gained independence in 1963. The country has a population of approximately 28 million and covers an area of approximately 583,000 km(2). The official language is English. The government of Kenya is a democratic republic and the current head of state, President Daniel arap Moi, has been in power since 1978 with the last multi-party elections held in 1992. Kenya had a vigorous gold mining industry during the early 1900s up to World War II. During the period of political turmoil in the 1950s and early 1960s leading up to independence, the Kenyan gold mining industry declined significantly. The current economy is dominated by tourism, coffee and other agricultural exports.
NDORI
Pursuant to an agreement dated December 12, 1996, with San Martin Mining Research and Investment Company ("San Martin") and San Martin 96 S.A., PARC was granted the immediate and exclusive right to conduct prospecting, exploration, development or related activities on properties covering an area of approximately 1,300 km(2) known as Ndori in the Kisumu region of Kenya. The Ndori License, which permits prospecting and exploration for gold and other precious metals, became effective on March 29, 1988, and expires on December 31, 1997. PARC was also granted an exclusive option to apply for and acquire a 75% or greater interest in a mining lease or leases pursuant to the license and any successor rights. In order to maintain the working right and option, PARC made a payment of $0.6 million concurrent with the execution of the agreement, and agreed to expenditures of at least $0.6 million during each of the first and second twelve month periods of the agreement. Any first year expenditures by PARC in excess of $0.6 million shall be credited against PARC's expenditure commitments during the second year. PARC committed to make minimum expenditures during the third, fourth and fifth years of the agreement sufficient to maintain the Ndori License in good standing.
The Property
The Ndori property covers 1,300 km(2) in western Kenya on the shores of Lake Victoria, due northwest of the city of Kisumu. Access to the property is good with a major road through the center of the property and several other traversing roads.
Geology
The geology of the Ndori property is an extension of the Tanzanian gold fields to the south and beneath Lake Victoria, with the property lying within a well differentiated suite of Archean volcanics. Available geologic data from previous exploration programs by the United Nations Development
Program ("UNDP") and previous owners suggest the potential for quartz reef hosted, shear zone hosted and intrusive related gold mineralization. Approximately 40 old mines at one time or another have been exploited on the property, 20 of which included milling facilities. Available records from exploration carried out in the 1980s by third parties indicate an existing calculated mineralized inventory of 100,000 tonnes grading 11.4 g Au/t at the Ngiga mine, 100,000 tonnes grading 13.7 g Au/t at the Coronation mine and 75,000 tonnes grading 9.5 g Au/t at the Kidson mine, totaling approximately 104,000 oz.
Work Program
Previous exploration programs of the UNDP and others have primarily focused on the potential for high grade but low tonnage quartz vein and reef hosted gold mineralization. The principal objective of PARC's first year's work program in 1997 is the first investigation of the potential of the property to host bulk minable deposits capable of supporting large scale, modern mining operations. During 1997, a comprehensive survey of all the existing old gold workings on the Ndori property is expected to be completed as well as a reconnaissance program over the whole of the property involving geologic mapping, termite mound sampling and auger drilling.
Results from the ongoing inventory program are being interpreted and integrated into a geological information system data base, and remote sensing and airborne geophysical survey data will be used to identify favorable structural and lithologic settings for gold mineralization. To date, 205 rock samples have been collected at old mine sites and a total of 586 termite mound samples have been collected. Following completion of this work, follow-up work involving augering and trenching is planned over identified anomalous areas.
LATIN AMERICA PROPERTIES OUTSIDE OF GUIANA SHIELD
SOUTHERN STAR RESOURCES LTD.
In March 1995, the Company formed Southern Star Resources Ltd. ("Southern Star"), a Barbados corporation and its 100% owned subsidiary, to hold, explore, develop and exploit all of its mineral interests in Latin America outside of the Guiana Shield. Southern Star has been actively investigating opportunities throughout Latin America. To date, Southern Star's acquisitions have been focused in two countries: Brazil and Bolivia. Capitalized exploration costs for Southern Star as of December 31, 1996 totaled $7.1 million, with a total of $6.3 million spent during 1996 on continued exploration and property acquisition. Budgeted 1997 exploration and preliminary reconnaissance expenditures for Southern Star total $9.0 million.
BRAZIL PROPERTIES
Brazil is the fifth largest country in the world with an area of 8,510,700 km(2), which is equivalent to almost half of the entire South American continent. The majority of the country is located in a tropical zone and the Amazon river system drains over half of Brazil's area. Brazil comprises 27 states and the Federal District of Brasilia, the capital city. With a population of over 152 million people, its two main cities are Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Brazil declared its independence in 1822 and has been a republic since 1889. From 1964 to 1985, although under a military regime, Brazil experienced considerable economic growth and development. In 1985, the country returned to democracy and a new Constitution was implemented in 1988. Even though Brazil has a free enterprise system, there is still considerable state and semi-state participation in various strategic sectors, such as transportation
and utilities. Special legislation was enacted to privatize many companies, but the process is moving at a slow pace. The government has been successful in the last year in reducing the rate of inflation. Brazil hosts the world's largest iron ore deposits and is the world's largest producer. Major export products include soybeans, orange juice, cocoa, coffee and manufactured goods. Southern Star's property interests are located in the central and eastern Amazon region, with administrative offices in Brasilia, the capital of Brazil, in the State of Goias.
ANDORINHAS
On December 5, 1995, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce ("CVRD") announced that Southern Star was selected by CVRD as the successful bidder to earn a right to associate with CVRD for the possible future development and exploitation of the Andorinhas gold property in Brazil. CVRD is one of the world's largest resource and transportation logistics companies. In mining, CVRD ranks as the world's largest producer of iron ore and ranks as a major producer of bauxite, manganese, precious metals and other mineral products. CVRD is the largest individual producer of gold in Latin America and has extensive land holdings in Brazil. CVRD is currently approximately 51% owned by the Brazilian government and is currently in the process of a privatization effort. The Andorinhas tender represents CVRD's first effort to secure outside partners to assist in the development of CVRD's gold resource potential in Brazil.
An agreement with CVRD was executed in May 1996 by Southern Star and Estrela Sul Do Brasil Empreendimentos Ltda., Southern Star's wholly owned Brazilian subsidiary ("Estrela Sul"). Under the agreement, Southern Star's exclusive right to earn a 50% participating interest in an association with CVRD created to exploit any gold discovered on the property is conditional upon Southern Star matching CVRD's previous exploration expenditures of R5.2 million (approximately $5.5 million, subject to monthly adjustments to account for Brazilian inflation), completion of a positive feasibility study, and CVRD obtaining any necessary legal or governmental approvals to form an association for development and exploitation of a mine. Southern Star must spend a minimum of R3.7 million (approximately $3.9 million on the property, subject to monthly adjustments to account for Brazilian inflation). Upon making exploration expenditures of R5.2 million, CVRD will share equally in all remaining exploration and development costs. Southern Star has the right to terminate the agreement and let its right to form an association lapse without any further obligations at any time as long as it has fulfilled the minimum exploration commitment of R3.7 million. Otherwise, Southern Star must pay CVRD the difference between the minimum commitment and the actual amount of expenditures it has made to the date of the termination.
As part of an agreement with CVRD, and in lieu of cash property payments to CVRD, Southern Star must also reach agreements with the surface owners and occupants of portions of the land covered by the three exploration licenses comprising Andorinhas in connection with its exercise of the exploration activities. Agreements have been reached with several key land owners to acquire improvements and surface rights over the two principal target areas on the property, Mamao and Babacu. These agreements contemplate aggregate cash payments by Southern Star of approximately $7.1 million payable over four years. More than a dozen additional people own areas less critical and peripheral to the main target areas. There can be no assurance that satisfactory agreements will be concluded with these remaining land owners.
The Property
The Andorinhas project covers approximately 25,000 ha. and is located in the state of Para in the eastern Amazon near the town of Rio Maria and is approximately 150 km south of the Carajas district. The property is located in the central Para State of northeastern Brazil about 670 km south-southwest of the city of Belem. It is accessible by paved road to Rio Maria and then dirt road for 35 km. Scheduled planes service the city of Redencao about 100 km south of Rio Maria.
Andorinhas is an advanced stage exploration project. Gold mineralization was discovered at Andorinhas in the late 1970s by Rio Doce Geologia e Mineracao S.A., CVRD's exploration subsidiary. The geologic setting and mineralization of discoveries in the area share the same characteristics of many of the notable underground mines in the Abitibi mineral province in Canada, with high grade gold-quartz vein mineralization occurring in multiple zones. Surface work and approximately 15,000 m of drilling by CVRD in late 1970s identified three primary zones of interest, Mamao and Babacu along a 14 km shear zone trending northeast-southwest through the southern leg of the property and Lagoa Seca on a parallel 8 km shear zone to the north. The drilling results averaged 2.7 m at 17.1 g Au/t from 11 holes at the Mamao prospect, 19.8 m at 4.7 g Au/t from 9 holes at the Lagoa Seca prospect and 2 m at 8.1 g Au/t from 6 holes at Babacu.
In the early 1980s, the Andorinhas area experienced a significant influx of garimpeiros (illegal miners) who caused most legitimate exploration activity to cease in the area during that period and who mined multiple surface zones of enriched mineralization along the shear zones. Garimpeiro mining diminished significantly in the mid 1980s as gold prices fell and pits from the surface mining of gold bearing material began to encounter the water table. Several such pits exist at the two primary target areas on the southern 14 km regional shear, Mamao and Babacu. At the Mamao area five distinct pits remain: Melechete, Matinha, Cantina, Maria Bonita and Mandioca. One garimpeiro established an underground mine on the Melechete ore shoot from the bottom of the Melechete pit. Access roads were improved, a power line was brought to the property and a small mill and carbon treatment plant were constructed.
Work Program
During 1996, regional exploration included 65 km of line cutting, 50 km(2) of surface mapping, and approximately 5,700 line km of airborne geophysical surveys over the property. A total of 356 deep auger holes, totaling approximately 2,850 m, were drilled on the Mamao and Babacu zones. Southern Star's underground sampling of the Melechete ore shoot at the Mamao area during 1996 consisted of a carefully cut series of 675 samples in 78 channels systematically distributed throughout the 27 levels of the existing underground workings. The sampling evaluated an ore body whose minimum dimensions, as defined by the mined out workings, extend from surface down plunge for 270 m, with a width of up to 150 m, and a thickness of 2.5 to 7 m. Encouraging results have been received from the sampling with an uncut weighted average grade of all samples of 20 g Au/t. The cut weighted average grade (cut at the 98th percentile of 125 g Au/t) is 13.7 g Au/t. A core drilling program was initiated to test for the possible extension of gold mineralization to the west of the Melechete zone toward the Matinha zone as well as for potentially new mineralization at the Cantina and Maria Bonita zones.
During 1996, 18 core holes were completed totaling approximately 2,370 m. At the Matinha zone, located west of the known Melechete orebody, mineralization was intersected in 8 of 10 holes drilled on approximately 50 m centers to the northwest of the existing Melechete pit. The most significant five holes drilled in the Matinha zone, exhibited an uncut, weighted average grade of approximately
9.7 g Au/t over an average intercept length of 2.1 m. This drilling in the Melechete/Matinha area suggests that the Melechete and Matinha zones are part of one continuously mineralized zone with a strike length of at least 300 m and variable thickness. The first phase of drilling resulted in a better than doubling of the strike length of mineralization in the Melechete/Matinha area, which remains open down plunge. Core holes drilled in the Cantina and Maria Bonita zones intercepted mineralized shear zones with average grades of 0.5 to 2.0 g Au/t, though it is not yet certain how this shear-related mineralization can be correlated with that discovered in the Melechete/Matinha area to the west. Total exploration and acquisition expenditures in 1996 on the Andorinhas property were $3.4 million.
The work program for Andorinhas during 1997 involves a minimum of 12,000 m of core drilling. The principal objective for the second phase of core drilling in the Mamao area will be to complete an initial evaluation of the Melechete/Matinha mineralized zone on 50 to 100 m centers over a strike length of 400 m and down plunge 700 m. This part of the program will require a minimum of 20 holes, totaling approximately 8,000 m. A second core drill is scheduled to begin the first phase of core drilling at the "Babacu" area, anticipated to involve approximately 4,800 m of core drilling. A systematic deep augering program, a geologic mapping effort and sampling of other old surface workings will continue on targets to the north of the Mamao area as well as testing for extensions of the Mamao-Babacu regional shear. A ground geophysical survey is anticipated to better evaluate anomalies identified by the 1996 airborne geophysical survey, particularly to the south of the Mamao area. Budgeted 1997 exploration expenditures total $5.3 million for the Andorinhas property.
ABACAXIS PROPERTY
Pursuant to an option agreement dated as of June 19, 1996, among Estrela Sul, Matapi Exploracao, Mineral Ltda. ("Matapi") and Ourobras Pesquisas e Mineracao da Amazonia Ltda. ("Ourobras"), Estrela Sul acquired a working right and five-year option to acquire 100% of the right, title and interest of Matapi and Ourobras to three "alvaras", or exploration licenses, issued in favor of Matapi, collectively known as the Abacaxis property. Ourobras has a preexisting joint venture agreement with Matapi with respect to the Abacaxis property.
Estrela Sul has paid Matapi and Ourobras approximately $0.2 million to date in connection with the option. Additionally, to keep its option and working right in force, Estrela Sul must: (i) pay Matapi approximately $150,000 on December 1, 1997 and $0.3 million on December 1, 1998 and (ii) incur expenditures on the property of at least $0.2 million by June 19, 1997, an aggregate of $0.5 million by June 19, 1998, an aggregate of $1.1 million by June 19, 1999 and an aggregate of $2.0 million by June 19, 2000. Estrela Sul may exercise its option at any time after completing the payment and expenditure obligations set forth above up to the fifth anniversary of the option agreement. Following exercise of the option, Matapi and Ourobras will be jointly entitled to a royalty of 2% of all net smelter returns from any mine developed on the property, provided that Estrela Sul has the perpetual right to purchase 50% of such interest for $0.8 million which, if exercised, would leave Matapi and Ourobras with a net smelter royalty of 1%. Estrela Sul must make two advance payments of the royalty, in the amount of $0.5 million each (or $250,000 after purchase of 50% of the royalty) within 10 days after June 19, 2000 and June 19, 2001, respectively.
The Property
The Abacaxis property covers approximately 30,000 ha. and is located approximately 270 km southeast of the city of Manaus, in the District of Maues, State of Amazonas, Brazil. It is accessible by boat, small fixed-wing aircraft or helicopter. Abacaxis is in the Tapajos area, which is one of the most
actively worked areas mined by garimpeiros in Brazil. At Abacaxis, narrow quartz-sulfide-gold veins cut Proterozoic metasedimentary rocks. The veins are exceptionally high grade, at more than 30 g Au/t. Adjacent wall rocks also locally contain anomalous values of gold with as much as 2 to 4 g Au/t. The area is at the margin of a failed Proterozoic rift that may have been remobilized during younger tectonic events.
Work Program
Work began at Abacaxis in December 1995 with camp construction access and grid line cutting. During 1996, gold exploration at Abacaxis took place at both regional grid-controlled scales. Fixed-wing airborne geophysical surveys were completed, totaling 4,024 line km of magnetic and radiometric surveys on a 200 m line spacing over the whole of the 30,000 ha. property. A total of 207 line km of follow-up stream sediment traverses was completed involving 305 rock and 555 stream sediment samples. A preliminary 4 by 4 km grid totaling 52 line km at a 400 m line spacing was established in the central part of the property. A more detailed grid totaling 25.7 line km at a 100 m line-spacing with an additional 5.2 km of base line extension was then established over an area which includes four principal +200 ppb anomalies: Airstrip, Main Pit, Tatu and RG-25. Approximately 770 soil samples, 375 rock samples and 136 stream sediments samples were collected from the combined grid areas and analyzed for gold.
During the second half of 1996, 595 deep auger holes, totaling approximately 4,525 m were systematically drilled every 40 m along the 100 m grid, yielding a weighted average grade of approximately 1.0 g Au/t across the four anomalies. The zones range from 300 m to 800 m in strike length, and up to 400 m in width. Two of the anomalous areas (Main Pit and Airstrip) contain bedrock occurrences of gold bearing quartz veins. Late in 1996, infill deep auger drilling was initiated to test the continuity of gold in saprolite in the Tatu zone. Total 1996 exploration and acquisition expenditures for Abacaxis were $1.2 million.
The 1997 exploration program at Abacaxis anticipates the refinement of the central grid utilizing additional deep augering, ground geophysics and core drilling. A core drilling program will be developed to test each zone, Airstrip, Main Pit, Tatu and RG-25, with three holes. Additional reconnaissance work is scheduled on an area of interest identified in 1996 to the east of the central grid. Reconnaissance work is anticipated to involve establishing a grid through linecutting followed by geologic mapping and preliminary deep augering. Total 1997 budgeted exploration expenditures for Abacaxis are $0.8 million.
BOLIVIA PROPERTIES
Bolivia is located in the western part of South America and has an area of 1.1 million km(2). The western part of the country, the high Altiplano, averages over 3,800 m in elevation, while the eastern portion of the country is a tropical lowland. Bolivia has been an independent nation since 1825. Although there has been a history of military regimes through the 1970s, all governments since 1982 have been democratically elected. The country has nine Departments with a total population of approximately 10 million. The capital and principal city, located in western Bolivia, is La Paz. Southern Star has established an administrative office in the city of Santa Cruz in central Bolivia. In addition to the San Simon and Sunsas South properties described below, Southern Star has acquired or is in the process of acquiring rights on at least 15 other early stage gold and diamond exploration properties in Bolivia.
SAN SIMON
Pursuant to a joint venture agreement dated as of February 23, 1996 among Jean Marc Marie Teisseire Bellini and Nelson Herrera Ribera, two Bolivian nationals (collectively, "Teisseire and Herrera") and Southern Star Bolivia S.R.L., the wholly owned subsidiary of Southern Star, Southern Star Bolivia acquired the right to undertake exploration, development and exploitation activities on the five concessions in the San Simon region of northeastern Bolivia, covering an aggregate of approximately 14,600 ha. Southern Star Bolivia, in its discretion, may exclude all or portions of the five concessions from the joint venture at any time, subject to certain limitations, and may terminate the joint venture at any time without further obligation. In October 1996, Southern Star Bolivia opted to exclude three of the five concessions (covering approximately 6,000 ha) from the joint venture and relinquished any further rights with respect thereto. The two concessions remaining in the joint venture are known as Marco Maria (approximately 5,200 ha.) and Ibere (approximately 3,300 ha.).
As of December 31, 1996, Southern Star Bolivia has made cash payments to Teisseire and Herrera of approximately $0.1 million in connection with the joint venture. Additionally, Southern Star Bolivia must pay: $7 per hectare for each hectare remaining subject to the joint venture as of October 31, 1997; and $10 per hectare for each hectare remaining subject to the joint venture as of October 31, 1998.
Commencing on October 31, 1999, and each six months thereafter, Southern Star Bolivia must pay Teisseire and Herrera (jointly) advance royalty payments of $15,000 until the commencement of commercial production on a mine, which amounts shall be offset by deducting 50% of all future royalty payments earned until the amounts advanced are repaid in full. Teisseire and Herrera are jointly entitled to a royalty equal to 3% of the net smelter returns from any mine developed on the two remaining properties. Southern Star Bolivia has the right, during the first two years after commencement of commercial production, to purchase 41.66% of the original royalty from Teisseire and Herrera for $1.0 million and an additional 41.66% (for an aggregate of 83.3%) of the original royalty for an additional $1.5 million which, if exercised, would leave Teisseire and Herrera with a net smelter royalty of 0.5%.
In early 1996, claims of "denouncement" of title were filed against virtually all the mineral concessions then existing in the San Simon region, including the Marco Maria and Ibere properties, alleging a technical default relating to the "form" used by the various concession holders to file their annual patent payments. After consulting with local Bolivian counsel, management does not believe this poses a major risk to title to the concessions. However, no assurance can be given with respect to the outcome of those claims at this time. The acquisition of mineral title under the Bolivia mining code is extremely technical and, in many cases, technical defaults cannot be cured and can result in the loss of title. Jorge Forgues Valverde, a Bolivian national ("Forgues"), has filed a claim for the rights to the Marco Maria concession, alleging that the rights of Teisseire and Herrera have expired or are otherwise invalid. Southern Star Bolivia has an understanding with Forgues pursuant to which Southern Star Bolivia would enter a joint venture agreement with Forgues and a third party, on substantially the same terms as its current agreement with Teisseire and Herrera in the event Forgues' claim to Marco Maria should be legally recognized. In addition, Southern Star Bolivia has a preliminary agreement with Forgues and a third party with regard to a joint venture on two prospective gold exploration properties in the San Simon region known as Joe (550 ha.) and Laurencio (775 ha.) over which Forgues has pending title claims. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of Forgues' pending title claims to the Marco Maria, Joe or Laurencio concessions, nor with respect to the
consummation by Southern Star Bolivia of a formal agreement or agreements with Forgues with respect to those properties.
The Property
The San Simon area is located in northeastern Bolivia, in the Department of Beni, in the Itenez province, near the Brazilian border. The existing and pending concessions mentioned above, totaling approximately 9,825 ha., are located in the Serrania San Simon, which is comprised of a series of ridges and flat-topped mesas rising up to 400 m above the jungle. From Santa Cruz, the area is accessed by paved and dirt roads (approximately 250 km and 520 km respectively), or by plane. The gold deposits in the Serrania San Simon were first worked by the Jesuits during the colonization period (1688-1767). Mining activity was renewed in the late nineteenth century and peaked during the first rubber boom (1905-1918). Currently, local minors are working on a small scale on two concessions belonging to other companies.
Weakly metamorphosed folded and faulted Proterozoic sediments underlie much of the area. Gold-bearing quartz veins, commonly with arsenopyrite, occur in the El Colorado Quartzite and Bonanza Metasubgraywacke. Rock samples from concessions adjacent to Southern Star's have yielded up to 12 g Au/t. Placer gold occurs downstream from some of Southern Star concessions.
Work Program
During 1996, reconnaissance work was conducted throughout the property and involved the collection of approximately 488 rock samples, 2,910 soil samples, 115 stream sediment samples, and 10 BLEG samples. This work resulted in the identification of the anomalous Marco Maria zone. Follow-up work included 32 deep auger holes and a ground geophysical survey totaling approximately 23 line km. During 1996, the Company spent $0.7 million on exploration at the San Simon area.
Work during 1997 has been scheduled to focus on better definition of the Marco Maria anomaly through additional deep augering and trenching in order to plan an initial core drilling campaign.
SUNSAS SOUTH
Southern Star Bolivia has entered into a preliminary agreement with Goran Matcovic Vranjican ("Matcovic"), pursuant to which Matcovic has granted Southern Star Bolivia the option to earn an 85% interest in two exploration concessions, known as Marioly (of approximately 19,500 ha.) and Mira Maria Magdalena (of approximately 11,200 ha.) in the southern Sunsas region of Bolivia, subject to completing a due diligence investigation and consummation of a formal option agreement meeting all the requirements of Bolivian law. Southern Star Bolivia has additionally obtained a 100% interest in an exploration concession in the southern Sunsas region known as Santo Corazon (of approximately 14,700 ha.).
Southern Star Bolivia has made cash payments to Matcovic of $50,000 to date in connection with the option on the Marioly and Mira Maria Magdalena concessions. Another cash payment of $70,000 is due on August 15, 1997. Additionally, to earn its 85% interest, Southern Star Bolivia must (i) incur minimum expenditures of $350,000 and complete a minimum of 2,000 m of diamond drilling on the concessions within 24 months after execution of a formal option agreement and (ii) complete at some point (no fixed time limit) a "pre-feasibility study" on the concessions sufficient, in Southern Star
Bolivia's judgment, to justify commissioning a formal feasibility study thereon. Southern Star Bolivia may terminate the preliminary option agreement at any time without further obligation.
The Property
The Sunsas area is located in southeastern Bolivia, in the Department of Santa Cruz, in the Angel Sandoval Province, approximately 400 km from Santa Cruz. The area of the concession consists of the Goran Matkovic options and the Santo Corazon concession. From Santa Cruz, the area is accessed by dirt road.
Work Program
During 1996, the regional exploration effort comprised 66 rock, 639 soil, 256 pan concentrate and 14 BLEG samples. Gold was panned in the majority of the Matkovic block drainages, with up to 3 relatively coarse gold colors (up to 1 mm). Santo Corazon does not appear to contain coarse gold; however, the area to the west does and is presently being solicited. Soil sampling has proven unsuccessful due to the veneer of piedmont coverage and the BLEG sampling has proven inconclusive.
Work during 1997 will focus on the remainder of the Matkovic claim block (presently 60% explored) with first pass sampling. Follow-up detailed sampling will be conducted on favorable zones. Ground magnetics will be carried out across selected areas of interest as well.
ITEM 3.