ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
MAPS OF OPERATIONS AND PROPERTIES
The maps below show the locations of Bogoso, Prestea, Wassa, Pampe, the Hwini-Butre, Benso and Mampon in Ghana, and various exploration properties in certain other areas of West Africa. These properties are described in further detail below.
PROPERTY STATUS TABLE
The chart below summarizes information regarding our more significant properties, which are described in further detail below:
License renewal requests were filed with the Ghana Mineral Commission prior to the license expiry dates for all properties shown as expired in the table above. We remain in frequent contact with the Mineral Commission and expect to receive all permits upon completion of administrative processing.
MINING IN GHANA
Ghanaian Ownership and Special Rights
Ghana is situated on the west coast of Africa, approximately 600 km north of the Equator on the Gulf of Guinea. Accra, the capital city of Ghana, is located almost exactly on the Prime Meridian. The former British colony changed its name from the
Gold Coast to Ghana on achieving independence on March 6, 1957. Ghana is now a republic with a population of approximately 23 million people and a democratically elected government. English remains the official and commercial language.
The total land area of the country is approximately 238,000 square kilometers and the topography is relatively flat. Ghana has a tropical climate with two rainy seasons and two dry seasons each year. The natural vegetation in the Western Region where Golden Star Resources has its two operations is moist tropical forest, now found only in forest reserves, with a majority of the land converted to agricultural pursuits.
Rights to explore and develop a mine are administered by the Minister of Lands and Natural Resources, through the Minerals Commission, a governmental organization designed to promote and regulate the development of Ghana's mineral wealth in accordance with the Minerals and Mining Act of 2006 (Act 703), which came into effect in March 2006 (“2006 Mining Act”).
A company or individual can apply to the Minerals Commission for a renewable exploration license granting exclusive rights to explore for a particular mineral in a selected area for an initial period not exceeding three years. When exploration has successfully delineated a Mineral Reserve, an application may be made to the Minerals Commission for conversion to a mining lease, granting a company the right to produce a specific product from the concession area, normally for a period of 20 to 30 years or a lesser period that may be agreed upon with the applicant.
The 2006 Mining Act requires that any person who intends to acquire a controlling share of the equity of any mining company that has been granted a mining lease, must first give notice of its intent to the Government of Ghana and also obtain its consent prior to acquiring a controlling share.
Under the 2006 Mining Act, the Government of Ghana holds a 10% free-carried interest in all companies that hold mining leases. The 10% free-carried interest entitles the Government to a pro-rata share of future dividends. The Government has no obligation to contribute development capital or operating expenses. GSBPL and GSWL owe $691.1 million and $58.6 million, respectively, to Golden Star or its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2012, for past advances and interest on these advances, and these amounts would be repaid before payment of any dividends to the government.
Under the 2006 Mining Act, the Government of Ghana is empowered to acquire a special or golden share in any mining company. The special share would constitute a separate class of shares with such rights as the Government and the mining company might agree. Though deemed a preference share, it could be redeemed without any consideration or for a consideration determined by the mining company and payable to the holder on behalf of the Government of Ghana.
In the absence of such agreement, the special share would have the following rights:
•
it would carry no voting rights but the holder would be entitled to receive notice of, and to attend and speak at, any general meeting of the members or any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares;
•
it could only be issued to, held by, or transferred to the Government of Ghana or a person acting on behalf of the Government;
•
the written consent of the holder would be required for all amendments to the organizational documents of the company, the voluntary winding-up or liquidation of the company, or the disposal of any mining lease, or the whole or any material part of the assets of the company;
•
it would not confer a right to participate in the dividends, profits or assets of the company or a return of assets in a winding up or liquidation of the company; and
•
the holder of a special share may require the company to redeem the special share at any time for no consideration or for a consideration determined by the company.
GSBPL and GSWL have not issued, nor to date been requested to issue, a special share to the Government of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana has a pre-emptive right to purchase all gold and other minerals produced by mines in Ghana. The purchase price would be agreed by the Government of Ghana and the mining company, or the price established by any gold hedging arrangement between the company and any third party approved by the Government, or the publicly quoted market price prevailing for the minerals or products as delivered at the mine or plant where the right of preemption was exercised. The Government of Ghana has agreed to take no preemptive action pursuant to its right to purchase gold or other minerals so long as mining companies sell gold in accordance with certain procedures approved by the Bank of Ghana.
Ghanaian Royalty
Ghanaian law sets mineral royalties at a flat rate of 5% of mineral revenues. We paid royalties of $27.6 million, $21.3 million and $13.1 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.
Ghanaian Corporate Tax
In 2012 the Government increased the corporate income tax rate from 25% to 35% of taxable income for mining companies. Additionally, the use of capital allowances (tax depreciation) was changed in 2012 to be deductible at a flat rate of 20% over a five year period instead of an 80% deduction in the year that the capital spending was incurred and the majority of the remaining 20% deductible over the following two years.
During 2012, the Government enacted new tax regulations that would disallow expenditures from one mining area as a deduction from revenues in a separate mining area belonging to the same company in determining the company's taxable income for tax purposes. The Government also announced in 2012, but has not yet enacted, its intent to introduce a 10% windfall profit tax on mining companies. The details of these two tax changes have not been made publicly available, and we are thus not able to determine the impact of these proposed new taxes, if any, on our operations.
In 2011, the Government announced that it intends to establish a tax stability renegotiation team which plans to review the existing tax stability agreements of mining companies operating in Ghana. While our mines do not have tax stability agreements, it is not clear at this time if the tax stability renegotiation team will review our Deeds of Warranty which specify certain tax agreements for our properties.
Environmental and other Laws and Regulations
In the various jurisdictions where we operate, all phases of our exploration, project development, and operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may define, among other things, air and water quality standards, waste management requirements, and closure and rehabilitation obligations. In general, environmental legislation is evolving to require more strict operating standards, more detailed socioeconomic and environmental impact assessments for proposed projects, and a heightened degree of accountability for companies and their officers, directors, and employees for corporate social responsibility, and health and safety. Changes in environmental regulations, and the way they are interpreted by the regulatory authorities, could affect the way we operate, resulting in higher environmental and social operating costs that may affect the viability of our operations.
Environmental matters in Ghana, including those related to mining, fall primarily under the oversight of the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), with some responsibilities lying with the Minerals Commission. The EPA has rules and guidelines that govern environmental and socioeconomic impact assessments and statements, environmental management plans, mine operations, the quality of water discharges to the environment, environmental auditing and review, and mine closure and reclamation, among other matters to which our operations are subject. Additional provisions governing surface land uses by our stakeholders are provided in the 2006 Mining Act with further requirements being defined in the associated regulations that were published in 2012.
We note a continuing trend toward substantially increasing environmental requirements and greater corporate social responsibility expectations in Ghana. This includes requirements for more permits, analysis, data gathering, community hearings, and negotiations than have been required typically in the past for both routine operational needs and for new development projects. The trend to longer lead times in obtaining environmental permits has reached a point where we are no longer able to accurately estimate permitting times for our planning purposes. The increases in permitting requirements could affect our environmental management activities including, but not limited to, tailings storage facilities, water management and rehabilitation and closure planning and implementation at our mines.
Our mining, processing, development, and mineral exploration activities are also subject to various laws governing prospecting, development, production, taxes, labor standards, occupational health and safety, land claims of local people and other matters. New rules and regulations may be enacted or existing rules and regulations may be modified and applied in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.
We use hazardous chemicals in our gold recovery activities, and thus generate environmental contaminants that may adversely affect air and water quality. To mitigate these effects, we have established objectives to achieve regulatory requirements in all of our exploration, development, operation, closure, and post-closure activities so that our employees, the local environment, and our stakeholder communities are protected and that the post-closure land use contributes to the sustainability of the local economy. In order to meet our objectives, we:
•
Educate our managers so that they are committed to creating a culture that makes social and environmental matters an integral part of short-term and long-term operations and performance management systems;
•
Work with our employees so they understand and accept environmental and social policies and procedures as a fundamental part of the business;
•
Signed and publicly stated our support for the UN Global Compact and completed our commitments that are provided in our communications on progress;
•
Establish, and continue to improve, operating standards and procedures that aim to meet or exceed requirements in relevant laws and regulations, the commitments made in our environmental impact statements, environmental and socioeconomic management plans, rehabilitation and closure plans, and any international protocols to which we are a signatory;
•
Incorporated environmental and human rights performance requirements into all relevant contracts;
•
Provide training to employees and contractors in environmental matters;
•
Regularly prepare, review, update, and implement site-specific environmental management and rehabilitation and closure plans;
•
Work to progressively rehabilitate disturbed areas in conformance with the site-specific environmental management and rehabilitation and closure plans;
•
Consult local communities and regulators to provide us with input on our environmental management policies and procedures;
•
Regularly review our environmental performance;
•
Complete our resettlement projects in accordance with the International Finance Corporation Performance Standard 5 on land acquisition and involuntary resettlement; and
•
Publicly report our social, health, safety, and environmental performance.
Reclamation activities were ongoing at both Wassa/HBB and Bogoso/Prestea during 2012 to rehabilitate disturbed lands and reduce some of the long-term liabilities including re-profiling waste dumps, capping hard rock with oxide materials, topsoil spreading and planting for both slope stabilization and long-term rehabilitation. Our consolidated reclamation expenditures totaled $6.2 million, $26.9 million, and $9.7 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The 2011 spending reflects backfilling of the Plant North Pit. We believe all our operations in Ghana are currently in substantial compliance with all environmental requirements.
Corporate Social Responsibility
In keeping with our health, safety and wellbeing, environmental, and community relations and human rights policies, we strive at all times to conduct our business as a responsible corporate citizen. We believe our ongoing success in Ghana depends on our continuing efforts to build good relations with our local stakeholder communities, and by reviewing broader stakeholder comments and addressing stakeholder concerns in our developing projects and ongoing operational activities. We believe our success as an employer, as a neighbor, and as an important part of the local economy is furthered by contributing to the diversification of the local economy with initiatives such as our Golden Star Oil Palm Project and by our support of community-driven improvement projects through our Golden Star Development Foundation. During 2012, the Development Foundation worked with our local Community Mine Consultation Committees to fund and sponsor several community-driven projects including public toilets, a community centre, continuing scholarships for local students, and supplying of medical advice in partnership with a European aid organization (GIZ).
Our Oil Palm Project continued to advance during 2012 and now has 790 hectares of palm oil trees under cultivation with fruit production increasing such that our small holder farmers on the Bogoso Plantation are now receiving sufficient income to become independent. GSR also supports a skills training program for stakeholders aimed at local economic development. The Golden Star Skills Training and Employability Program (GSSTEP) provides practical training for local people in construction and in high tech services such as cell phone repair. We currently have about 140 graduates who are now able to provide skilled services.
In our efforts to promote transparency in governance, we continue to work with the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, and throughout 2012 we published our payments to the government of Ghana (e.g. taxes, royalties, fees). We furthered our work in human rights and against discrimination with a training program within Golden Star.
Our commitment to the development of our stakeholder communities demonstrates Golden Star's dedication to Ghana and to sharing the success of our operations with our local communities. In 2012, we signed a series of community agreements with our Bogoso stakeholder communities covering, amongst other things, local employment and community development projects. As we continue to expand our community development programs, we plan to integrate more local people and communities into our economic development and outreach programs, so assisting the Western Region of Ghana to achieve its full potential within the broader Ghana development.
OPERATING PROPERTIES
THE BOGOSO/PRESTEA GOLD MINE
Bogoso/Prestea consists of a gold mining and processing operation located along the Ashanti Trend in western Ghana, approximately 35 kilometers northwest of the town of Tarkwa. The mine site can be reached by paved roads from Accra, Ghana's capital city, via Tarkwa, a local commercial center. Bogoso and Prestea are adjoining mining concessions that together cover approximately 40 kilometers of strike along the southwest-trending Ashanti gold district. Mining areas at Bogoso and Prestea are linked to the Bogoso processing plants by paved and gravel haul-roads located on our properties.
There are two ore processing facilities at Bogoso/Prestea and open pit mining methods are employed. Ore is hauled by truck from the pits to the processing plants. Equipment and facilities include the nominal 1.5 million tonne per annum Bogoso non-refractory processing plant, the nominal 3.5 million tonne per annum Bogoso refractory processing plant, a fleet of haul trucks, loaders, drills and mining support equipment. In addition, there are numerous ancillary support facilities including warehouses, maintenance shops, roadways, administrative offices, an employee residential complex, a water supply system, a stand-by 12 megawatt power plant, a medical clinic, and a tailings storage facility. Electric power is available locally from the Ghana power grid.
We acquired Bogoso and its non-refractory processing plant in 1999. The Prestea property was acquired in 2001. In July 2007, we completed construction and development of the Bogoso refractory processing plant. Bogoso/Prestea gold sales from both processing plants totaled 172,379 ounces in 2012 and 140,504 ounces in 2011. See the “Operating Results for Bogoso/Prestea” below for additional details on historical production and operating costs.
Ore for the Bogoso refractory processing plant is mined at the Bogoso North and Chujah pits located a few kilometers north of the the refractory processing plant. In February 2012, the Bogoso non-refractory processing plant began processing non-refractory ore from the the Pampe mine located 18 kilometers west of the plant. In conjunction, the Bogoso oxide plant was refurbished during the last quarter of 2011 in anticipation of processing Pampe oxide and other non-refractory ores from the Bogoso area.
In addition to the currently active Bogoso/Prestea operations described above, Bogoso/Prestea assets include the several development properties, including Dumasi, Mampon, Prestea South and Prestea Underground. See “DEVELOPMENT STAGE PROPERTIES IN GHANA” section below for a description of these properties.
Geology at Bogoso/Prestea
Bogoso/Prestea lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield along the Ashanti Trend located immediately south of the town of Bogoso. The area is dominated by a major northeast-southwest trending structural fault zone referred to as the Ashanti Trend, which hosts our Bogoso/Prestea operations as well as the Obuasi and Konongo gold deposits, among others. Parallel to the Ashanti Trend is the Akropong Trend, which hosts our Pampe property as well as the Ayanfuri deposit. The Akropong Trend is approximately 15 kilometers west of the Ashanti Trend in the Bogoso region.
Mineral Reserves at Bogoso/Prestea
At December 31, 2012, Bogoso/Prestea had Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves, including at Dumasi, Prestea South, Mampon and Pampe, of 35.2 million tonnes grading 2.51 grams per tonne containing approximately 2.8 million ounces of gold before any reduction for recovery losses and the Government of Ghana's 10% minority interest. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Operating Results for Bogoso/Prestea
The following table shows historical operating results at Bogoso/Prestea:
Exploration at Bogoso/Prestea
Exploration activities during 2012 at Bogoso/Prestea were limited to Chujah pit footwall resource conversion drilling, Opon East drill testing and Buesichem, Pampe South and Riyadh non-refractory target drilling. The 2013 exploration focus will be on additional non-refractory or free milling targets such as Buesichem East and Prestea South as well as definition drilling at Mampon.
THE WASSA GOLD MINE
We own and operate the Wassa gold mine located approximately 35 kilometers east of Bogoso/Prestea in southwest Ghana. The property, as now constituted, includes several open-pit mines, the nominal 3.0 million tonne per annum CIL Wassa plant with its crushing and grinding circuits, a fleet of mining equipment, a tailings storage facility and ancillary facilities, including an administration building, a warehouse, a maintenance shop, an 8 megawatt stand-by power generating facility and an employee residential complex. Electric power is available locally from the Ghana power grid.
GSWL also owns and operates the Hwini-Butre and Benso mines located 80 km and 50 km, respectively, south of Wassa. In 2008, following completion of a 50 km haul road, we started mining at Benso and began hauling its ore to Wassa for processing. In May 2009, following completion of a 30 km road extension, the Hwini-Butre mine began trucking ore to the Wassa processing plant. The Benso and Hwini-Butre mines include multiple open pits at both locations as well as mining equipment, equipment repair shops, warehouses and other ancillary support equipment and buildings. Mining was completed at Benso in February 2012. Mining is expected to continue at Hwini-Butre through mid-2014.
Geology at Wassa
Wassa lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield. The Proterozoic rocks that comprise most of the West African craton and host the major gold mineralization in Ghana are subdivided into meta-sedimentary and volcanic rocks of the Birimian and Tarkwaian sequences. Wassa is hosted within the same Birimian volcano-sedimentary greenstone package as Bogoso/Prestea. However, Wassa is situated on the southeastern flank of the Ashanti Belt while Bogoso and Prestea occur along the northwestern flank.
The volcano-sedimentary sequence hosting the Wassa deposit has been affected by four deformational events spanning across the Eoeburnean (age 2.1-2.2 billion years) and Eburnean orogeny (age 2.1 billion years). The associated gold mineralization which has developed during the earlier Eoeburnean deformational event and subsequently deformed during the Eburnean event has
resulted in a complex re-folded vein system at the Wassa mine. During the Eoeburnean deformation, a series of tight isoclinal folds and a strong fabric marked by chlorites, ankerite, and gold-bearing elongated pyrite was developed along with numerous quartz-ankerite veins. The gold-bearing veins along with the early isoclinal folds were re-folded along a large-scale synform during the Eburnean event. The early isoclinal folds control the distribution of high grade mineralization at depth which have been intercepted by the deep drilling program and will continue to be the main focus of the 2013 Wassa exploration program.
Geology at Hwini-Butre and Benso
The HBB properties lie within the south eastern portion of the Ashanti Greenstone Belt. The eastern margin of this belt comprises inter-bedded volcaniclastics while the western margin features a band of highly metamorphosed volcanics. Deposition of the Tarkwaian sediments was followed by a period of dilation and the intrusion of mafic dikes and sills. Subsequent compression and re-activation of faults led to intense folding and thrust faulting with associated shears, and this was accompanied by a regional metamorphic event. The area hosts a range of intrusive lithologies and morphologies including the porphyritic Dixcove granite complexes in the Takoradi area. The age of the various intrusives ranges from 2.2 billion years to 2.1 billion years.
The southern area of the Ashanti belt is host to numerous gold occurrences which are believed to be related to late stages in the regional metamorphism and the commencement of the structural re-activation events. The majority of gold deposits occur as narrow discontinuous quartz veins generally, but not exclusively, hosted by metavolcanic sequences.
Mineral Reserves at Wassa/HBB
As at December 31, 2012, Wassa and Hwini-Butre had Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves of 31.8 million tonnes with an average grade of 1.44 grams per tonne containing approximately 1.47 million ounces of gold. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Operating Results for Wassa/HBB
The following table displays historical operating results at Wassa/HBB.
Exploration at Wassa/HBB
Golden Star's main exploration focus for 2012 was delineation drilling on the Wassa deposit. Exploration for the first half of 2012 utilized our own drilling fleet consisting of two multi-purpose drill rigs. The initial drilling results were encouraging, which prompted management to add an additional three contractor drill rigs in August and one more rig in December, bringing the total to six rigs at the end of 2012. The 2012 drilling production at Wassa was 175 drill holes totaling 58,670 meters. Interim mineral resource models were completed to enable year-end Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve updates which included in this report. The resource model included only drilling results up to the end of August 2012. We expect to update the reserve and resource estimates in the second half of 2013 to incorporate additional drill results from September 1, 2012 onwards. The 2013 drilling programs for Wassa will continue to target the higher grade zones beneath Wassa's existing pits to further delineate the continuity of these zones. See "Development Projects" in Management's Discussion and Analysis below for additional information on drilling at Wassa during 2012 and our drilling plans for 2013.
Exploration activities on the HBB concessions during 2012 focused on drilling beneath the Father Brown and Adoikrom pits, as well as drilling at Pretsea and Esuaso. The 2012 drilling at Father Brown and Adoikrom completed 34 holes totaling 10,408 meters. This drilling continued to intersect the Father Brown and Adoikrom structures at depth which are characterized by westerly dipping
quartz veins hosted within sheared diorite and granodiorite intrusives of the Mpohor complex. The company plans to continue testing these zones in 2014 pending the outcome of a scoping study for an underground mining operation which should be completed in 2013. The drilling program will continue through 2013, further testing the Manso and Esuaso targets.
DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
PRESTEA UNDERGROUND
The Prestea Underground is an underground gold mine located approximately 15 kilometers south of the Bogoso processing plants. GSBPL holds the mining lease to this property which provides GSBPL with a 90% ownership with the Government of Ghana holding the remaining 10% interest.
Access to the mine site is via a paved road from Bogoso. The property consists of two access shafts with hoisting capabilities and extensive underground workings and support facilities. The Prestea Underground was mined from the 1870's until 2002 when mining ceased following an extended period of low gold prices in the late 1990s and early 2000s. The Prestea Underground has produced approximately nine million ounces of gold, the second highest production of any mine in Ghana.
The underground workings are extensive, reaching depths of approximately 1,450 meters and extending along a strike length of nine kilometers. Underground workings can currently be accessed via two surface shafts, one near the town of Prestea (Central Shaft) and a second approximately four kilometers to the southwest at Bondaye. The Prestea Underground deposits are located along the same Ashanti Trend structure as are our Bogoso deposits a few kilometers to the northeast and our Prestea South deposits a few kilometers to the southwest, with most of the gold mineralization found in a tabular fault zone which dips steeply to the northwest.
A Preliminary Economic Assessment ("PEA") study was completed in early 2012 that assessed the economic viability of an underground mining operation on a portion of this property, known as the West Reef. Based on the results of PEA, we are now working on a feasibility study scheduled for completion in the second quarter of 2013. See the "Development Projects" section of "Management's Discussion and Analysis" report below for additional discussion of this property.
We have budgeted spending of approximately $26 million in 2013 on development projects and equipment for the underground operations.
Geology of Prestea Underground
The Prestea concession lies on the western margin of the Ashanti greenstone belt, which is located in the West-African craton. The greenstone belt is composed primarily of paleoproterozoic metavolcanic and metasedimentary rocks that are divided into the Birimian Supergroup and the Tarkwa Group. Both units are intruded by abundant granitoids and host numerous hydrothermal gold deposits such as those found in the Obuasi and Prestea mines and paleo-placer deposits such as those found in Tarkwa and Teberebie mines.
The Prestea deposit can be classified as an orogenic mesothermal gold deposit where two main types of gold mineralization have been identified. The most common type of mineralization is fault-fill quartz veins along fault zones and second order structures, while the second type of mineralization is associated with brecciated zones hosted in iron-rich volcanic lenses.
DUMASI
Dumasi is Bogoso's largest undeveloped ore body located approximately 4 kilometers north of the Bogoso processing plants containing Mineral Reserves of 15.3 million tonnes grading 2.19 gram per tonne for 1.08 million ounces of in-situ gold and 0.8 million ounces of recoverable gold. We expect to commence mining the pit in early 2015, and that it will be the major source of ore feed to the Bogoso refractory processing plant for several years and will also send significant amounts of non-refractory ore to the Bogoso non-refractory processing plant as well. Planned expenditures in 2013 are approximately $15 million.
MAMPON
The Mampon deposit is located approximately 35 kilometers north east of the Bogoso non-refractory processing plant containing 1.6 million tonnes of Probable Mineral Reserves at an average gold grade of 4.56 gram per tonne or 0.23 million ounces in situ. This project will employ open pit mining methods and the ore will be hauled by truck to the Bogoso processing plants once mining commences. The permitting process in now underway. We plan to commence construction of a 35 kilometer haul road to Mampon in 2013 and to initiate mining by late 2014. The initial ore will be non-refractory but as mining proceeds deeper into the pit, refractory ore will mined as well. We expect to spend approximately $11 million on Mampon development activities during 2013.
PRESTEA SOUTH PROPERTIES
The Prestea South project is located on the Ashanti Trend, southwest of the town of Prestea and approximately 20 kilometers southwest of the Bogoso processing plants. Gold mineralization is associated with the same Ashanti Trend fault structure that continues to the north through our Bogoso and Prestea properties. While various sections of the mineral resources at Prestea South were mined by prior owners using underground methods, the near-surface non-refractory mineral resources have not been extensively mined, and there are also refractory mineral resources accessible by open pit mining. Our past exploration efforts have identified several deposits along this trend which can be mined by surface mining methods.
We have received mining permits for this area and have applied for environmental permits. We expect to initiate development at Prestea South, including its 10 kilometer haul road extension, once the environmental permits are received. The Prestea South non-refractory ore will be transported to Bogoso and processed through the Bogoso non-refractory plant. The Prestea South refractory ore will be processed through the Bogoso refractory plant. We now expect to initiate mining at the Prestea South pits by early 2014 and our 2013 development expenditures are expected to be approximately $3.7 million. As of December 31, 2012, the Prestea South properties had total Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves of 4.6 million tonnes grading 2.47 grams per tonne containing approximately 0.36 million ounces.
BOGOSO TAILINGS RECOVERY PROJECT
Construction is essentially complete at our hydraulic tailings recovery system at Bogoso which is designed to feed tailings from a decommissioned Bogoso tailings storage facility directly into the Bogoso non-refractory plant's CIL circuit. All environmental permits needed for start-up have been received. While the grade of the tailings material is lower than that of the ores typically treated in the Bogoso oxide plant in the past, operating costs are expected to be low since reclaimed tailings have low mining costs and can be fed directly into the existing CIL circuit, thereby resulting in lower overall processing costs. It is expected that this material will be a supplemental feed to non-refractory ores mined from Pampe and other non-refractory ore sources.
EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
Akropong Trend Properties
The Akropong properties are located along a fault structure which roughly parallels the Ashanti Trend and is located approximately 20 kilometers to the west of our Bogoso refractory plant. Exploration work at Pampe and Afranse were limited in 2012. The Pampe Mineral Resource model was updated in 2012 utilizing results from the drilling undertaken in 2011. We have had challenges with the community allowing access for further exploration on several of our properties along this trend, but discussions are underway to address their concerns.
Dunkwa Properties
The Dunkwa Properties, are located along the Ashanti trend, northeast of our Bogoso mining lease, and consist of two prospecting licenses, Mansiso and Asikuma, the latter hosting our Mampon deposit. The 2012 exploration programs on the Dunkwa properties were limited to a rotary air blast drilling program testing a geophysical conductor located east of the Opon deposit on the Mansiso prospecting license. The initial results were however not encouraging. Late in 2012 we initiated community consultations to resume exploration work on the Mampon deposit where waste dump sterilization, resource conversion and in-fill drilling programs have been budgeted for early 2013. In anticipation of the mining lease, the environmental impact assessment study which was initiated during 2011, continued through 2012.
Other Exploration Stage Properties in Africa
Cote d'Ivoire
Exploration work in Cote d'Ivoire this year involved a deep auger drilling program, designed to test the gold-in-soil anomalies over the Amelekia Permit, with results confirming the sub-surface gold anomalies. The Amelekia, Abengourou and Agboville Licenses were renewed in 2012, for a period of two years. In addition to these three licenses in Cote d'Ivoire, we submitted seven new applications in 2012 along mineralized trends throughout the country. In 2013, we plan to drill the deep soil anomalies at Amelika either on our own or through a joint venture with other exploration companies operating in Cote d'Ivoire.
Burkina Faso
In October 2007, we granted True Gold Mining Inc. (“TGM”), formerly Riverstone Resources Inc., an option to purchase our Goulagou and Rounga concessions in Burkina Faso. Exploration programs in 2010 and 2011 were managed and implemented by TGM and mainly consisted of infill reverse circulation drilling. In December 2011, TGM informed us that they intended to
exercise their purchase option for these two properties and the sale was completed in February 2012 upon receipt of $6.6 million of cash and 21.7 million TGM common shares.
Sierra Leone
The Sonfon project was a gold exploration property owned by a joint venture between Golden Star and Aureus Mining, with Golden Star as the majority owner and project manager. The project's license expired on August 8, 2011, and the license was granted by the government at that time to an unknown company.
Deba and Tialkam Projects, Niger
Our interest in the Deba and Tialkam gold properties in Niger were optioned to AMI Resources Inc. ("AMI") in 2009. AMI actively explored these properties in 2011 and 2012, spending more than $1 million. On October 16, 2012, an Earn-in Option Agreement was signed between AMI and Middle Island Resources ("MDI"). MDI is now the operator and is required to spend $2.0 million over 3 years to earn 70% of AMI's Niger properties.
Exploration Stage Properties in South America
Saramacca Property
The Saramacca property, located in Suriname, was sold to Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”) in December 2012. In 2009, we entered into an agreement to sell our Saramacca gold exploration project in Suriname to Newmont Mining Corporation. In December 2012, all requirements for the sale and transfer were met, and ownership and control of the Saramacca project was turned over to Newmont Mining Corporation for total consideration of $9.0 million cash. We received $8.0 million of cash in December 2012 and a final payment of $1.0 million in early 2013. A $9.2 million gain was recognized on this transaction in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Brazil
In Mato Gross state in northern Brazil, we are partners with Votorantim Minerals in the Iriri Joint Venture, a green fields project encompassing regional, wide spaced soil and stream sediment sampling. During 2012, sampling programs included both stream sediment and soil geochemistry sampling. This joint venture requires us to spend $5 million to earn 50% of the precious metal rights on this land package over a three-year period ending September 2013. As of December 31, 2012 we had spent $2.8 million. Additional ownership can be acquired if a project advances to the feasibility stage and we complete a feasibility study. The 2012 exploration program on the Iriri Joint Venture included both stream sediment and soil geochemistry sampling. The joint venture properties were reduced to 1,679 square kilometer after shedding areas tested in 2012 which returned no anomalous stream sample results. In Minas Gerais State, Kinross Gold Corporation continues to explore our Sao Bartolomeau concessions and has confirmed its intent to continue with additional exploration efforts in 2013 as required to earn into the property.
ITEM 3.