ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
INTRODUCTION
The maps below show the locations of Bogoso, Prestea, Wassa and the Prestea Underground in Ghana, and of our Paul-Isnard, Yaou and Dorlin exploration properties in French Guiana. These properties are described in further detail below.
MAP - AFRICA Map of "GOLDEN STAR PROPERTIES IN AFRICA," showing specific project locations in Ghana.
MAP - SOUTH AMERICA Map of "GOLDEN STAR PROPERTIES IN SOUTH AMERICA," showing specific project locations in Suriname and French Guiana
The table below summarizes information regarding certain of our properties, described in further detail below.
PROPERTY STATUS TABLE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002:
(1) Owned by BGL, our 90% owned subsidiary.
(2) We own a 50% interest in Yaou and Dorlin and our 73% owned subsidiary, Guyanor owns a 50% interest.
BOGOSO/PRESTEA
Bogoso/Prestea consists of a gold mining/milling operation located along the Ashanti Trend in western Ghana, approximately 35 kms northwest of the town of Tarkwa from where it can be reached by paved roads. A paved road runs down most of the 18.5 kms length of the property and connects the town of Bogoso in the northeast with the town of Prestea in the southwest. Another paved road provides access to a sealed airstrip located at the town of Obuasi, some 115 kms to the north. The mining areas are connected by paved and gravel haul-roads to the Bogoso mill.
Bogoso/Prestea is owned by BGL, one of our 90% owned Ghanaian subsidiaries. The Government of Ghana owns the remaining 10% of BGL. The Government of Ghana is entitled at all times to hold a 10% carried interest in all the rights and obligations of BGL. The Government of Ghana acquired this interest for no consideration and is not required to contribute any funds to pay any BGL expenses.
Equipment and facilities at Bogoso/Prestea include several open pit mines, a nominal 6,000 tonne per day CIL gold mill and a fleet of haul trucks, loaders and mining support equipment. In addition there are numerous ancillary support facilities such as power and water supply equipment, haul roads, housing for management and technical staff, a medical clinic, tailings storage facility, waste dumps, a warehouse, maintenance shops, offices and administrative facilities.
Between our 1999 acquisition of Bogoso and 2001, we mined gold from pits at Bogoso, processing the ore at the Bogoso mill to produce between 88,000 and 130,000 ounces of gold per year. In late 2001 we acquired Prestea located adjacent to Bogoso and have since mined gold ore from Prestea, transporting the Prestea ore by truck to the Bogoso mill for processing. Production in 2002, utilizing Prestea ores, was 124,000 ounces. We expect that the main source of ore to the Bogoso mill for at least the next five years will be from Prestea.
The Government of Ghana initially granted BGL a 30-year mining lease for Bogoso in August 1987, giving BGL the exclusive right to work, develop and produce gold in a mining area of 50 square kms. In August 1988, the Government of Ghana granted BGL a second 30-year gold mining lease covering an additional 45 square kms area adjacent to the first mining area.
In June 2001, BGL was granted a 30-year surface mining lease for Prestea by the Government of Ghana. The surface lease allows mining of ores down to a depth of 200 meters below the surface. Prestea is located immediately south of, and adjacent to Bogoso, and covers an aggregate area of 129 square kms. Under the three mining leases, BGL holds gold mining rights in a mining area totaling 224 square kms, subject to the payment of nominal annual rents.
The Bogoso Acquisition
On September 30, 1999, we and an unrelated company acquired 70% and 20%, respectively, of the common shares of BGL. Total acquisition cost, including initial payments, future payments, financing costs and administrative costs was $14.7 million with the Government of Ghana retaining a 10% equity interest. The Bogoso sellers received $6.5 million cash at September 30, 1999 and agreed to receive both contingent and non-contingent additional payments in the future. Payment of all non-contingent amounts was completed by mid-2002.
Two contingent payments were still outstanding as of December 31, 2002. The original 1999 purchase agreement required that a $2.0 million reserve acquisition linked payment would be due the Bogoso sellers if mineable reserves equivalent to 50,000 ounces of gold or greater were to be acquired elsewhere in Ghana for processing at the Bogoso
mill before September 30, 2001. Acquisition of the Prestea surface mining lease, with its contained reserves in excess of 50,000 ounces, triggered the reserve acquisition payment and in February 2003 we made the $2.0 million payment to the Bogoso sellers.
We were also required to pay the Bogoso sellers an amount equal to $5.0 million plus subsequent increases for inflation. The payment date is the first anniversary of the commencement of treatment of sulfide ore at the Bogoso Mine, which we presently expect by no earlier than 2007. The Bogoso sellers agreed to accept an immediate payment of $2.0 million to satisfy this obligation and this payment was made in February 2003.
In June 2001 we purchased the 20% minority interest of BGL, thereby raising our ownership to 90%. We paid 3,000,000 shares of our common stock and we cancelled a $1.9 million note receivable from the minority shareholder. The stock and note together brought the total purchase price of the 20% minority interest to $2.9 million.
The Prestea Acquisition
A surface mining lease for Prestea was granted to us by the Government of Ghana on June 29, 2001, following extended negotiations with PGR, Barnato Exploration Limited ("Barnex") and the Government of Ghana. Two separate transactions, one with Barnex and one with PGR, were required to facilitate the granting of the lease. Both transactions were required to remove all prior claims on the property, which thereby allowed the Government of Ghana to grant the new surface mining lease.
Pursuant to the agreement with Barnex, we issued to Barnex 3,333,333 common shares and 1,333,333 warrants to subscribe for our common shares at a price of $0.70 per share for three years. In addition, we are paying a royalty to Barnex on the first 1,000,000 ounces of production from Bogoso/Prestea. The royalty will vary, according to a gold price formula, from a minimum of $6.00 per ounce at gold prices less than $260 per ounce to a maximum of $16.80 per ounce at gold prices at or above $340 per ounce. The royalty is to be paid quarterly and is determined by multiplying the production for the quarter by a royalty rate that varies depending on the average spot gold price for the quarter, as per the following table:
We also paid $2.1 million in cash to PGR, in connection with the Prestea acquisition, including $1.3 million in 2001 and $0.8 million in January 2002.
The total cost of acquiring Prestea was $8.0 million. This included $2.2 million for our stock and warrants issued to Barnex, $2.1 million of cash paid to PGR, $2.0 million for the contingent liability to the Bogoso sellers which was triggered by acquisition of Prestea, $0.7 million of pre-production development costs and approximately $1.0 million in transactions costs. In addition to the $8.0 million of direct purchase costs listed above, $0.4 million of unamortized Bogoso purchase costs and $1.4 million of costs associated with the purchase of the 20% minority interest position in BGL during 2001, were included in the new Prestea amortization base, bringing the total amortizable cost basis to $9.8 million.
Geology of Bogoso/Prestea
Bogoso/Prestea lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province (1,800-2,166 Ma) in the West African Precambrian Shield. The paleoproterozoic rocks that comprise most of the West African craton and host the major gold mineralization in Ghana are subdivided into metasedimentary and volcanic rocks of the Lower Birimian, Upper Birimian and Tarkwaian sequences.
The Lower Birimian is composed largely of phyllites, schists, greywackes and volcanoclastics, and grades into the dominantly metavolcanic rocks (including lavas, pyroclastics, and some finer-grained metasedimentary rocks) of the Upper Birimian. Unconformably overlying the Birimian are the continental clastics of the Tarkwaian sequence. These clastics were derived from the weathering of Birimian rocks and granitic intrusions found within the Birimian.
The area is dominated by a major northeast-southwest trending structural fault zone referred to as the Ashanti Trend, which hosts the Prestea, Bogoso, Obuasi and Konongo gold deposits, among others. Parallel to the Ashanti Trend is the Akropong trend, which hosts the Ayanfuri deposit. The Akropong Trend is about 15 kms west of the Ashanti Trend in the Bogoso region, and gradually converges with it, coalescing at Obuasi and forming the basis for the world class Obuasi deposit, owned and operated by Ashanti Goldfields Company Limited.
In the Bogoso area, the faulted contact zone is known as the "Main Crush Zone" and passes through the central part of the Bogoso property for its entire 18.5 km length. The Main Crush Zone lies within a structural corridor that varies in width from 1,000 to 2,500 meters. Some 90% of the gold mined to date at Bogoso has come from the Main Crush Zone with the larger deposits being located at bends and junctions along this major fault. Additional faults and splays in the structural corridor may also be prospective for gold. The oxide ores tend to have fine-grained free gold that has been liberated during the weathering of pre-existing sulfides and oxidation extends from surface down to the approximate elevation of the water table. Below this, a transition zone of up to 20 meters of partially oxidized material directly overlies fresh sulfide mineralization.
Prestea covers a 22 km stretch of the Ashanti Trend located immediately south of Bogoso. Within the concession, the fault belt comprises an anastomosing network of faults with a dominant set of three or more northeasterly striking faults that define a sinistral shear zone. These shears host the Prestea Main, East and West reef zones, in addition to other minor reefs. Towards the south, in the vicinity of the Bondaye-Tuapem shafts, the braided shear zone splits into two groups of discrete widely separated shears. The Tuapem mineralization continues along strike of the fault belt, whereas the Bondaye mineralization bends southwards towards a highly prospective mineralized target zone at Nsuta.
Historical Mining Operations at Bogoso
Initial commercial mining at Bogoso dates back to the early years of the 20th century, Marlu Gold Mining Areas Ltd. began the first major mining operation in the Bogoso area in 1935, mining high-grade oxide ore from a series of open pits extending along the north-east, south-west Ashanti trend at Bogoso. During its 20-year period of operations from 1935 to 1955, Marlu produced over 900,000 ounces of gold at an average recovered grade of 3.73 g/t.
Billiton International Metals took control of Bogoso in the late 1980's. Their initial feasibility study established a mineable reserve of 5.96 million tonnes grading 4.0 grams gold per tonne, of which 461,000 tonnes (or less than 8%) comprised oxide ore. The feasibility study forecast gold recoveries of 83% from sulfide ore and 78% from oxide ore and estimated a waste to ore ratio of 5.6:1. Construction of a mining and processing facility was completed in 1991. The facility was designed to process oxide ores by using conventional CIL technology at a design capacity of 1.36 million tonnes per year and to process sulfide ores by using flotation, fluid bed roasting and CIL technology at a design capacity of 0.9 million tonnes per year. Operational difficulties with the fluid bed roaster, forced closure of the flotation circuit and roaster in early 1994. Following closure of the roaster, Billiton focused the Bogoso operations on oxide ore. Billiton's exploration efforts were successful in adding to the available quantity of oxide ore and Bogoso has operated as an oxide-only operation since 1994.
Historical Mining Operations at Prestea
Underground mining has been conducted at Prestea for more than 130 years. From 1873 to 1965, Prestea was then comprised of a number of different licenses operated by independent mining companies, which, in
1965, were amalgamated by the Government of Ghana into Prestea Goldfields Limited, under the aegis of the State Gold Mining Corporation.
In 1994 JCI Limited ("JCI") won a bid for participation in the Prestea mining operation. Subject to an agreement between the Government of Ghana, JCI and Barnex, a subsidiary of JCI, assumed management of the Prestea Underground in June 1996. While improvements were made in the productivities and efficiencies of the underground operation, an exploration program aimed at delineating near surface resources amenable to open pit mining was commenced.
However, owing to the declining gold price and continued financial losses, JCI terminated its management role of the underground mining operation in September 1998, and elected to shut down the underground workings. This action was opposed by the Prestea workforce and management, who subsequently pooled their severance payments and formed PGR to operate the mine. They were granted a six-month permit by the Government of Ghana to run the mine in December 1998.
In response to local political pressure, and to the de facto continuation of underground operations by PGR, in November 2000 the Government of Ghana abrogated the Barnex lease over Prestea, and formally awarded it to PGR. This was followed in 2000 and 2001 by negotiations involving the Government of Ghana, PGR, BGL and JCI, over the mining potential of the Prestea area. The eventual outcome of these discussions was the issuance in June 2001 of two separate leases for the property, one being for surface rights down to a depth of 200 meters below general ground elevation, and one for all mineralization below the 200 meter mark. The surface lease was awarded to BGL and the underground lease to PGR, with the joint commitment of both parties to work together to ensure effective and harmonious relations between the two operations.
BGL started surface mining operations on the Prestea concession in September 2001, with the first ore being processed at the Bogoso mill in October 2001. Total gold production from the Prestea area since recorded mining commenced in the 1870s is reported by the Ghana Chamber of Mines to be in excess of nine million ounces, making it the second largest historical gold producing area in Ghana, after the Obuasi mine.
Production
Gold production from the existing Bogoso mill from start-up in 1991 through 2002 has totaled 1,227,384 ounces. Gold production from January to December 2002 was 124,400 ounces, compared to 87,936 ounces in 2001. This 41% increase in gold production for 2002 compared to 2001, is attributable to higher gold recoveries achieved when operating on Prestea ore during 2002 versus Bogoso transition ores during much of 2001.
Comparisons of operating parameters and production with previous years are as follows:
During 2002, all ore feed to the Bogoso process plant came from oxide and non-refractory deposits at Prestea. Until November 2002, the feed came from the Buesichem, Beposo and Brumasi pits, at the northern end of Prestea. In November 2002, an environmental permit was received to allow mining from the Plant North pit, in the center of Prestea, close to Prestea township, and this has now become the sole producing pit, with the previously mined pits being rehabilitated.
Reserves
The following table presents the estimated Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves for Bogoso/Prestea, including stockpile ores, as of December 31, 2002 and 2001. See "Item 2. - Bogoso/Prestea" for a description of Bogoso/Prestea and "Risk Factors" for a discussion of factors that could affect the following estimates.
Oxide, transition and non-refractory sulfide ores are suitable for processing in the existing Bogoso mill. Refractory transition and sulfide ores will be processed through the planned sulfide mill facility.
BOGOSO/PRESTEA PROVEN AND PROBABLE MINERAL RESERVES
We have reported Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves for year-end 2002 using a $300 per ounce gold price versus $275 per ounce which was used in 2001. The Mineral Reserves are those ore tonnages contained within practical design pit envelopes or within economically optimized pit envelopes, designed for the various ore types including oxide, transition, non-refractory sulfide and refractory sulfide mineralized material. Gold recovery assumptions vary by ore type: gold recovery from oxide ores are estimated to be 80% to 92%, for transition ores 79% to 85%, for non-refractory sulfides 83% to 85% and for refractory sulfides 83% to 89%. We have used appropriate current and predicted mine operating costs and performance parameters.
Our Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves are estimated in conformance with definitions set out in Canada's National Instrument 43-101. Also see our "Glossary of Terms". The definitions of Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves are considered consistent with the definitions for proven and probable reserves prescribed for use in the United States by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and set forth in SEC Industry Guide 7. The Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves are those ore tonnages contained within economically optimized pit envelopes, designed for the oxide, transition and refractory sulfide mineral deposits.
The Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves at Bogoso/Prestea on December 31, 2002 stood at 23.1 million tonnes at an average grade of 2.98 g/t, representing approximately 2.2 million ounces of gold. This is compared to Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves at December 31, 2001 of 19.1 million tonnes at an average grade of 2.97 g/t, representing approximately 1.8 million ounces of gold. The Qualified Person responsible for supervising the estimation of reserves at Bogoso/Prestea is Mr. Dave Alexander, Projects Planning Manager. Mr. Alexander is a qualified mining engineer, is a member of the Institution of Mining and Metallurgy, and is a Chartered Engineer under the auspices of the Engineering Council of UK.
The increase in our Mineral Reserves since December 31, 2001 is the result of ongoing exploration work largely at Prestea. This work has identified significant additional mineralized material both along the strike of the deposits and at depth and resulted in greater certainty in some of the existing mineralized material. Drill results and test work carried out on samples from the Prestea mineral deposits indicates that the material can be successfully treated through the Bogoso mill and consequently this material has been converted into Mineral Reserves with due regard of the effects of mining losses and dilution, and incorporated into the current Bogoso/Prestea mining plan.
Non Reserves
CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS CONCERNING ESTIMATES OF MEASURED AND INDICATED MINERAL RESOURCES
This section uses the terms "measured mineral resources" and 'indicated mineral resources". We advise U.S. investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them. U.S. investors are cautioned not to assume that any part or all of the mineral deposits in these categories will ever be converted into reserves.
CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS CONCERNING ESTIMATES OF INFERRED MINERAL RESOURCES
This section uses the term "inferred mineral resources". We advise U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize it. "Inferred mineral resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of the inferred mineral resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility or other economic studies. U.S INVESTORS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO ASSUME THAT PART OR ALL OF THE INFERRED MINERAL RESOURCE EXISTS, OR IS ECONOMICALLY OR LEGALLY MINEABLE.
At December 31, 2002, the estimated Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources, exclusive of that part of the Mineral Resources converted to Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves, at Bogoso/Prestea was 19.9 million tonnes grading 2.97 g/t. In addition, there are 23.9 million tonnes of Inferred Mineral Resource at an average grade of 2.91 g/t.
BOGOSO/PRESTEA MINERAL RESOURCE ESTIMATES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002
Our Mineral Resources for Bogoso/Prestea, which are reported exclusive of the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves, have been estimated in conformance with definitions set out in Canada's National Instrument 43-101. Also see our "Glossary of Terms".
The Mineral Resources have been estimated using a $325 per ounce gold price and historic and predicted mining and processing costs and metallurgical recoveries. The cut off grades used vary between 0.9 and 1.4 g/t for non-refractory oxide, transition and non-refractory sulfide resources and between 1.8 and 2.0 g/t for refractory sulfide and transition resources.
The Mineral Resource has been estimated using mining-processing costs between $7.49 to $9.16 per tonne for oxide material, between $13.80 and $15.17 per tonne for refractory transition material, between $15.13 and $15.41 per
tonne for refractory sulfide material, between $9.51 and $9.96 per tonne for transitional material and between $10.43 and $10.88 per tonne for non-refractory sulfide material. Processing recoveries between 80% to 87%, 80% to 83%, and 83% to 86% were used for non-refractory oxide, transition, non-refractory sulfide, refractory transition and refractory sulfide material respectively. An overall mining recovery of 95% of the ore tonnes was also applied for all materials. Processing costs and recoveries for transition and oxide materials are based on historic numbers achieved with the existing CIL plant. Refractory sulfide processing costs and recoveries has been based on estimates for bio-oxidation based on variability and pilot test work conducted on drill core.
During October 2001, as required by the Ontario Securities Commission, an independent technical report was produced by Associated Mining Consultants Ltd ("AMC") on our behalf. This report is still current under the guidelines contained in Canada's National Instrument 43-101.
The Refractory sulfide portion of the Mineral Resource estimate was derived from 1,139 reverse circulation drill holes totaling 35,251 meters, 517 diamond drill holes totaling 52,654 meters and 5,941 rotary air blast holes totaling 137,677 meters. Included in the drilling above were 221 new drill holes totaling 24,450 meters which were drilled during 2000 and 2001 as part of our sulfide feasibility study, of which 8,187 meters were HQ or PQ core. This includes 1,110 meters of oriented core for geotechnical and hydrogeological modeling.
Resource estimates for Prestea are based on drilling carried out by JCI and Barnex, who completed 1,003 drill holes totaling 88,331 meters of diamond, reverse circulation and rotary air blast drilling between July 1995 and April 1999. This comprised 48,604 meters of reverse circulation drilling, 36,915 meters of diamond drilling and 2,813 meters of rotary air blast drilling and resulted in 95,182 analytical samples. During 2002 we completed additional drilling on the Prestea property including, 140 reverse circulation holes totaling 14,237 meters, 462 rotary air blast holes totaling 11,779 meters, and five diamond drill holes totaling 933 meters. This new drilling combined with the existing data has been used to produce the end of 2002 Mineral Resource estimates.
The information in this report that relates to the estimation of the Bogoso/Prestea Mineral Resource is based on information compiled and/or validated by Mr. S. Mitchel Wasel, Exploration Manager - Ghana. Mr. Wasel qualifies as the Qualified Person being a qualified geologist who has 15 years of experience in gold and base metal exploration and is a Member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
THE WASSA PROPERTY
Wassa is located in western Ghana approximately 35 kms east of Bogoso/Prestea. Wassa is currently inactive but includes an open pit mine, heap leach pads, processing equipment (crusher, agglomeration plant, conveyors, and gold recovery plant), parts and supplies inventory, maintenance shops, administrative offices, an electric power generating facility, housing for employees, a community center and miscellaneous other ancillary facilities. All assets are less than five years old, functional and in good repair.
Paved roads are complete from Cape Coast to Twifu-Praso, some 28 kms from the project site. The laterite road from Twifu-Praso to Akyempim has been recently upgraded as far as Ateiku. The mine can be reached from Bogoso via Tarkwa via a paved road to the town of Abosso or via Insu which is a shorter un-paved route.
Wassa Acquisition
We acquired our 90% interest in Wassa on September 13, 2002. The remaining 10% interest is owned by the Government of Ghana. Wassa was developed by a former owner in the late 1990s at a capital cost of $43 million as a conventional open pit, heap leach gold operation and operated for approximately two years producing approximately 90,000 ounces per year. Operations were suspended in mid-2001. In 2001, the secured lenders to the project enforced their security rights in the project and, following a bidding process, agreed to sell the Wassa asset to us.
We paid the Wassa Seller, a syndicate of banks led by Standard Bank London Limited, an initial consideration of $1.6 million at closing and assumed debt of $1.8 million. We also agreed to pay two separate royalties on future production. The seller-provided debt is repayable over a four-year term beginning on
December 13, 2003 with installments following every three months thereafter, with the final payment on September 13, 2007. The interest rate is LIBOR plus 2.5% until gold production begins and LIBOR plus 2.0% after gold production begins. Interest on the initial $1.8 million accruing prior to the initiation of gold production at Wassa will be capitalized into the loan.
The first royalty is to be paid quarterly and the amount of the payments will be determined by multiplying the production from Wassa for each quarter by a royalty rate of $7.00 per ounce produced. The royalty rate is subject to increase by $1.00 per ounce for each $10.00 increase in the average market price for gold for each quarter above $280 per ounce up to a maximum of $15.00 per ounce at gold prices of $350 per ounce and above. The second royalty is a flat $8.00 per ounce, and is capped at $5.5 million.
We also assumed a reclamation liability of approximately $2.3 million for restoration of the environmental disturbance at Wassa as of the date of the acquisition. The amount of the restoration liability was determined by an independent environmental engineering firm, commissioned by us to establish the amount of the liability.
Geology of Wassa
Wassa lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province (1,800-2,166 Ma) in the West African Precambrian Shield. The paleoproterozoic rocks that comprise most of the West African craton and host the major gold mineralization in Ghana are subdivided into metasedimentary and volcanic rocks of the Birimian, and Tarkwaian sequences.
Birimian rocks are composed largely of phyllites, schists, greywackes, volcanoclastics, and metavolcanic rocks (including lavas and pyroclastic rocks). Overlying the Birimian are the continental clastics of the Tarkwaian sequence. The Tarkwaian clastics were derived from the weathering of an uplifted continental edifice partially composed of Birimian rocks and granitic intrusions.
Wassa is hosted within the same Birimian volcano-sedimentary greenstone package as Bogoso/Prestea. Wassa is situated on the southeastern limb of the Tarkwa Syncline while Bogoso and Prestea occur along the northwestern limb. The northwestern belt hosts the Obuasi, Prestea, and Bogoso gold mines the southeastern limb also is characterized by gold mines and mineral occurrences. Tarkwaian hosted deposits along the south eastern limb include Goldfield's Tarkwa and Abosso mines, Birimian hosted gold occurrences include St. Jude's Hwini-Butre property and Wassa.
Birimian rocks at Wassa have been affected by at least three phases of deformation, producing a polyphase fold pattern in the region. Discrete high-strain zones locally dissect this fold system. The structural history of the Wassa area is important in that the various deformational events have been responsible for the emplacement of the gold mineralization as well as the current day geometry of the ore zones themselves. Ore shoots at the Wassa mine are related to vein swarms and associated sulfides that formed during the first and second phase of ductile deformation, some mineralization may also be hosted in tensional veins of the third phase of deformation.
Stratigraphically the Wassa area is underlain by mafic and felsic volcanics with minor interdigitated graphitic shales and terrigeneous sediments (greywacke). The stratigraphy can be generally subdivided into three principal sequences from youngest to oldest: interlayered thin mafic and felsic volcanic flows; a relatively thick felsic volcanic flow; and interlayered greywacke, mafic volcanic flows and a basal diorite.
The first two phases of deformation have severely buckled the entire stratigraphic sequence underlying the region, producing tight fold patterns and discrete shear zones. The third phase of deformation is enigmatic in the sense that it produced a flat lying crenulation cleavage that can only be associated with a rock load that would have been superimposed onto the region. Rock loading likely was superimposed tectonically by the means of thrust faulting and the subsequent stacking of rock on top of the now exposed Wassa stratigraphic packages.
Non Reserves
CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS CONCERNING ESTIMATES OF MEASURED AND INDICATED MINERAL RESOURCES
This section uses the terms "measured mineral resources" and 'indicated mineral resources". We advise U.S. investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them. U.S. INVESTORS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO ASSUME THAT ANY PART OR ALL OF THE MINERAL DEPOSITS IN THESE CATEGORIES WILL EVER BE CONVERTED INTO RESERVES.
CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS CONCERNING ESTIMATES OF INFERRED MINERAL RESOURCES
This section uses the term "inferred mineral resources". We advise U.S. investors that while this term is recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize it. "Inferred mineral resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence, and great uncertainty as to their economic and legal feasibility. It cannot be assumed that all or any part of the inferred mineral resources will ever be upgraded to a higher category. Under Canadian rules estimates of inferred mineral resources may not form the basis of feasibility or other economic studies. U.S INVESTORS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO ASSUME THAT PART OR ALL OF THE INFERRED MINERAL RESOURCE EXISTS, OR IS ECONOMICALLY OR LEGALLY MINEABLE.
At December 31, 2002, the estimated Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource at Wassa was 17.8 million tonnes grading 1.29 g/t. In addition, there are 26.0 million tonnes of Inferred Mineral Resource at an average grade of 1.15 g/t.
WASSA MINERAL RESOURCE ESTIMATES AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002
Our Mineral Resource estimate for Wassa has been estimated in conformance with definitions set out in Canada's National Instrument 43-101. Also see our "Glossary of Terms".
The Mineral Resource has been estimated using a $325 per ounce gold price and historic and predicted mining and processing costs and metallurgical recoveries. The cut off grades used vary between 0.4 g/t and 0.6 g/t. The resource estimates have been estimated using mining-processing costs between $5.66 to $6.40 per tonne and processing recoveries between 92 and 93%. An overall mining recovery of 95% of the ore tonnes was also applied for all materials.
As required by the Ontario Securities Commission, an independent technical report is currently being produced by Associated Mining Consultants Ltd ("AMC") on our behalf and we expect it to be filed in Canada and the U.S. in April 2003.
Mineral Resource estimates for Wassa were based on the data set collected by SGL consisting of 934 reverse circulation drill holes totaling 74,485 meters, and 124 diamond drill holes totaling 17,822 meters. As part of the due diligence and ongoing feasibility exercise GSR completed 765 RAB holes totaling 18,710 meters, 295 RC holes totaling 15,198 meters, 5,215 meters of RC pre-collar and 76 diamond drill holes totaling 9,357 meters.
The information in this report that relates to the estimation of the Wassa Mineral Resource is based on information compiled and/or validated by Mr. S. Mitchel Wasel,
Exploration Manager-Ghana. Mr. Wasel qualifies as the Qualified Person being a qualified geologist who has 15 years of experience in gold and base metal exploration and is a Member of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Historical Mining Operations at Wassa
Mechanized gold mining began at Wassa in 1999 following approximately 10 years of exploration work by various parties. The property was developed by a consortium of European mining entities under the name of Satellite Goldfields Ltd. ("Satellite"). The Satellite operation consisted of an open pit mine and a conventional three million tonnes per year heap leach operation. Gold production was approximately 90,000 ounces per year in 2001 and 2000. Operations under the Satellite entity, ceased in mid-2001. See "Wassa Acquisition" above for subsequent details.
Our Involvement
We are currently working on a feasibility study to determine if Wassa can be reactivated on a profitable basis. A drilling program has been designed and carried out in conjunction with a feasibility study to evaluate the gold potential of the property. We are also conducting engineering and design studies which indicate that it may be possible to establish profitable operations at Wassa utilizing conventional CIL technology. CIL technology should provide better gold recovery and lower unit costs than was achieved during the earlier heap leach operational phase. We expect to complete the reserve analysis and feasibility study by mid-2003 and if warranted, construction of a CIL mill facility would begin immediately thereafter. The estimated capital cost of the CIL plant and associated start-up costs is expected to be approximately $14 million. Gold production could begin by early 2004. Most of the existing infrastructure, including the crushers, conveyors, the power plant, haul roads and adsorption plant, as well as the town site and administrative facilities would be useable in a CIL operation.
PRESTEA UNDERGROUND PROPERTY
The Prestea Underground has produced approximately nine million ounces of gold during the last 130 years, the second highest output of any Ghanaian mine. The underground workings are extensive, reaching depths of approximately 1,400 meters and extending along strike for approximately ten kms. Underground workings can currently be accessed via two shafts, one near the town of Prestea and a second approximately four kms to the southwest. Past mining was concentrated along a steeply dipping tabular northeast trending shear zone that was mineralized with gold-bearing quartz veins. Gold was also disseminated in the crushed rock of shear zones. Cut-and-fill mining methods were employed in most of the past operations due to the rock conditions in the shear zones. Underground operations ceased in early 2002, following an extended period of low gold prices.
Access to the mine site is via a paved road maintained by the Ghanaian government. A rail line connects the town of Prestea to the town of Tarkwa, a major mining supply center approximately 25 kms to the east, but there is currently no service on the line.
We are currently engaged in a program to recondition the two shafts and their associated hoists, which are in good operational condition. Ancillary facilities include an administrative office, maintenance shops, a warehouse and electrical substations. The 70 year-old mill facility was demolished by BGL in 2002 to gain access to the surface reserves now being produced by BGL. Any potential future production from the Prestea Underground would likely be trucked to the Bogoso mill for processing.
The Prestea Underground is contained within a mining lease which covers the same area as the surface mining lease granted to BGL on June 29, 2001. The surface mining lease is restricted to a depth of 200 meters below the surface and the underground mining lease is restricted to material deeper than 200 meters below the surface. The underground mine lies directly beneath some of the surface reserves now being mined by BGL. The consolidation of the underground mine with the activities of BGL is therefore a natural progression to the orderly and economic development of the area.
Prestea Underground Acquisition
In March 2002, BGL entered into an agreement with PGR, the Ghana Mineworkers Union and the Ghana government, among others, relating to the Prestea Underground. The salient features of the agreement are as follows:
(i) the Prestea Underground would be shut down and put on care and maintenance;
(ii) the mining lease over the Prestea Underground would be transferred from PGR to BGL, to be held by BGL on behalf of a joint venture between BGL, PGR and Government. BGL had an initial 45% interest in the joint venture, as did PGR. The Government of Ghana retained a 10% interest;
(iii) BGL would take over the management of the Prestea Underground;
(iv) BGL would commence an assessment of the safety and economic viability of the underground mine, which could take as much as two years to complete; and
(v) certain infrastructure associated with the Prestea Underground would be decommissioned and demolished by BGL to make way for the development of BGL's surface mining operations at Prestea.
Pursuant to the new agreement, BGL, on behalf of PGR, paid $1.9 million of employee back pay and severance costs to PGR's former employees, each of whom entered into individual separation agreements with PGR. In addition, BGL paid approximately $0.2 million cash to PGR during 2002 and made an additional payment of $0.3 million, bringing the total cost of our initial 45% interest in the joint venture to $2.4 million.
All aspects of the joint venture agreement as listed above, were carried out in 2002. BGL's subsequent spending on care and maintenance and on geological and engineering studies raised BGL's interest in the joint venture to 54% by the end of 2002.
Geology of the Prestea Underground
Three major Proterozoic stratigraphic units can be identified in the area: the Lower Birimian, made up mostly of argillaceous and arenaceous sediments, overlain by the Upper Birimian (basic to acid volcanics mixed with tuffaceous sediments) which are in turn overlain by the Tarkwaian Group (conglomerates, quartzites and phyllites). This sequence has been intruded by large Cape Coast and smaller Dixcove granitoids as well as by mafic dykes and sills. All these units have undergone low to moderate greenschist metamorphism at approximately 1.8 Ma during the waning stages of the Eburnean Orogeny. It is also during that period that ore-related folding and shearing occurred.
The Prestea deposits are associated with the same Konongo-Axim shear zone which extends over 220kms and which accounts for 80% to 90% of the total quartz lode-hosted gold extracted in Ghana. Other mines located along the same shear are the Bogoso pits, Obuasi and Konongo.
Prestea is located on the western limb of an overturned isoclinal mega syncline. The rocks strike NE-SW and dip steeply 65(Degree) to 75(Degree) to the NW. The younging direction is towards the SE. Both the Birimian and the Tarkwaian have been subjected to complex polyphase deformation. Folding is intense, tending to be isoclinal with the fold axis trending parallel to the rock units. Faulting also tends to follow the fold axis strike and lies close to the contact between the lower and upper Birimian units.
Two types of gold hosts have historically been recognized at Prestea: shear-related hydrothermal quartz veins; and disseminated sulfide-hosted gold mineralization associated with metavolcanic pods.
The veins are crack-and-seal types with country rock enclaves (generally phyllites which are often mineralized themselves) encapsulated within the composite vein mass. The veins (locally called "reefs") are intermittently developed, steeply plunging pod-shaped quartz lenses located either within the shear itself or in the extension joints in the footwall of the shear. They are typically narrow (1-2 meters) and have short strike length relative to their down plunge extension. The shear itself is marked by a carbonaceous or graphitic gouge horizon. Where the shear is devoid of quartz veining, it usually carries little or no gold.
Anastomozing branches from the main shear zone occur in places, giving rise to both footwall and hanging wall veins that transgress stratigraphy.
There are essentially three reefs which have been mined at Prestea, by decreasing order of importance:
o the Main Reef,
o the West Reef,
o the East Reef.
The Main Reef is the most laterally persistent of the three and has been extensively mined. The West Reef lies in the Main Reef's hanging wall whereas the East Reef is found in the footwall. Cross-sections show that the Main and West Reefs diverge at depth. While the East Reef is a minor ore body in the Central Shaft sector, it is the principal source of gold in the southern portion of the mine around Bondaye Shaft.
Towards the south the shear splays out which may result in a greater number of ore bodies over a larger structural corridor.
The shear zone also encompasses altered metavolcanic pods within which stock work sulfide (mainly pyrite and acicular arsenopyrite) and associated gold mineralization have been recorded. These pods tend to be found in the footwall of the Main Reef and may have acted as buttresses against which the shear could jog and create dilatational traps for hydrothermal fluids to precipitate. The metavolcanics have en-echelon type arrangements and are elongated parallel to the shear strike while cross-sections show the pods pinching and swelling downdip. They range in thickness from a few meters to several 10's of meters. Their true nature is still open to question as some workers have categorized them as strongly carbonatized and sericitized greywackes whiles others have identified saussuritized glass shards and remnants of ferro-magnesian minerals that would qualify them as basic to intermediate tuffs.
MINING IN GHANA
Ghana is situated on the West Coast of Africa, approximately 750 kms north of the equator on the Gulf of Guinea. Accra, the capital city of Ghana, is located on the Greenwich Meridian. After a period as a British colony, Ghana achieved independence in 1957 and it is now a republic with a democratically elected government. Ghana has a population of approximately 19 million people. English is the official and commercial language. The total land area of the country is approximately 238,000 square kms and the topography is relatively flat. Ghana has a tropical climate with two rainy seasons and two dry seasons.
Rights to explore and develop a mine are controlled through the Minerals Commission, a governmental organization designed to promote and control the development of Ghana's mineral wealth. A company or individual can apply to the Minerals Commission for a renewable exploration concession granting exclusive rights to explore for a particular mineral in a selected area for a period of two years. When exploration has successfully delineated a mineable reserve, an application is made to the Minerals Commission for conversion to a mining lease, granting a company the right to produce a specific product from the concession area for a period of normally 20 years. Production must begin within two years of the date of granting a mining lease.
Government of Ghana Special Rights
The Government of Ghana has a 10% carried interest in BGL and Wexford and is entitled to acquire up to an additional 20% interest in BGL and/or Wexford. The carried interest entitles the Government of Ghana to a pro-rata share of future dividends, if any, from BGL and Wexford once all third party loans and shareholder loans owed to us are repaid. If the Government of Ghana wishes to exercise the additional acquisition right, it must first give reasonable notice. It must pay such purchase price for the additional 20% interest as the Government of Ghana and BGL and/or Wexford may agree on at the time. If there is no agreement, the purchase price will be the fair market value of such interest at such time as determined by arbitration conducted by the International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. The Government of Ghana may also acquire further interests in BGL and/or Wexford on terms mutually acceptable to the Government and BGL and/or Wexford. To date the government has indicated no desire to obtain additional ownership in any of our properties.
The Government of Ghana is entitled to acquire a special or golden share in any mining company at any time for no consideration or such consideration as the Government of Ghana and BGL and/or Wexford may agree. The special share will constitute a separate class of shares with such rights as the Government of Ghana and BGL and/or Wexford may agree. In the absence of such agreement, the special share will have the following rights:
o the special share will carry no voting rights, but the holder will be entitled to receive notice of and attend and speak at any general meeting of the members or any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares;
o the special share may only be issued to, held by or transferred to the Government or a person acting on behalf of the Government;
o the written consent of the holder of such special share must be obtained for all amendments to the organizational documents of the company, the voluntary winding-up or liquidation of the company or the disposal of any mining lease or the whole or any material part of the assets of the company; and
o the holder of the special share will be entitled to the payment of a nominal sum of 1,000 Ghanaian Cedis in a winding-up or liquidation of the company in priority to any payment to other members and may require the company to redeem the special share at any time for a nominal sum of 1,000 Cedis.
BGL and Wexford have not issued or been requested to issue to date, any such special share to the Government of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana has a pre-emptive right to purchase all gold and other minerals produced by BGL and Wexford. The purchase price will be such price as the Government of Ghana and BGL and Wexford may agree on, or the price established by any gold hedging arrangement between BGL and any third party approved by the Government, or the publicly quoted market price prevailing for the minerals or products as delivered at the mine or plant where the right of preemption was exercised. The purchase price must be paid in foreign exchange. The Government of Ghana has agreed to take no preemptive action pursuant to its right to purchase such gold or other minerals so long as BGL and Wexford sells gold in accordance with certain procedures for selling gold approved by the Bank of Ghana.
Government Royalties
Under the laws of Ghana, a holder of a mining lease is required to pay a quarterly royalty of not less than 3% and not more than 12% of the total revenues earned from the lease area. The Government of Ghana determines the royalty percentage each year based on the ratio that the operating margin bears to the value of gold produced from the lease in that year. In 2002, 2001 and 2000 the royalty rate for BGL was 3% of revenues, and the amounts paid were $1.2 million, $0.7 million and $0.9 million, respectively.
Environment
BGL and Wexford are in substantial compliance with the environmental requirements imposed by Ghanaian laws and guidelines and applicable guidelines and standards published by the World Bank. BGL completed significant work during 1999 to identify the outstanding reclamation liability and to prepare a rehabilitation work plan. Significant work has been performed during 2000, 2001 and 2002 to advance this plan and to reduce the outstanding reclamation liability. Expenditures for ongoing rehabilitation work, including the capping of sulfide material, backfilling of worked out pits, and the contouring and re-vegetation of waste dumps, were approximately $0.5 million during 2002 and $0.7 million during 2000. An additional $0.2 million was spent on reclamation activities during 2001. As at December 31, 2002, BGL had $3.3 million of restricted funds set aside for environmental reclamation of Bogoso.
A reclamation liability of $2.3 million was recognized upon the acquisition of Wassa, such amount representing the estimated cost of reclamation as of the date of the acquisition.
EXPLORATION PROJECTS IN GHANA
We have entered into five option agreements along the Akropong trend since the acquisition of BGL in September 1999. Each option agreement entitles BGL to acquire a 90% interest, with a 10% government carried interest, in mineral properties located on the Akropong trend and within approximately 20 to 25 kms from the BGL plant. In addition to the option agreements, BGL has been granted two prospecting licenses to the south and east of the Akropong trend and has one application for a prospecting license on the western side of the trend. The total surface area of the mineral properties covered in the option agreements and applications is approximately 514 square kms. The objective of this work is to acquire potential mining opportunities in the immediate vicinity of Bogoso/Prestea that may, in the future, provide additional sources of mill feed for the Bogoso mill. All these projects are at an early stage of exploration and to date they do not have, and ultimately may not have, proven and probable reserves. The eight properties are referred to hereinafter as the "Akropong Projects".
In 2002, exploration activities on the Akropong Projects involved regional stream sampling over the entire concession area. Anomalies were prioritized and follow-up soil geochemistry programs were planned. Initial RAB drilling of the Riyadh anomaly commenced in December and will continue into 2003. Exploration expenditures for the Akropong Projects totaled just over $100,000 during 2002.
We expect to spend approximately $300,000 on Akropong Projects during 2003. Exploration work for 2003 will involve soil geochemistry surveys, mechanized trenching and RAB drilling. Testing of positive deep auger anomalies and up dip extensions of mineralization intersected in previous diamond drill holes and a preliminary RAB drilling program will be initiated along the Pampe South anomaly. Follow up soil geochemistry will be conducted at Amenfi to delineate the source of the alluvial gold defined by the stream sampling program. Geochemical soil sampling is planned to test stream anomalies defined in 2002. Pending positive results from the soil geochemistry these anomalies will be RAB drilled in 2004. Expenditures given are estimates and may vary.
We signed letters of intent with seven Ghanaian concession holders in 2002. These concessions are located south of the Prestea property and south east of Tarkwa. As part of our due diligence we have conducted stream sediment and soil sampling surveys on the concessions and have signed joint venture agreements on five of these properties. The total land area encompassed by these five concessions totals 192 square kms. We expect to spend approximately $180,000 on these projects in 2003, including property payments.
The Obuom concession is currently under reapplication which is expected to be granted in 2003. Exploration work scheduled for Obuom will involve confirmation of the gold in soil anomalies previously defined by JCI.
At Wassa, exploration efforts are planned to investigate the potential in the immediate vicinity of the existing infrastructure. Located just north of the Wassa property is the Adasse prospecting license. Exploration scheduled for Adasse includes regional stream sampling followed by wide spaced soil geochemistry. Any economic gold mineralization delineated at Adasse could be processed through at Wassa. We have applied for three reconnaissance permits east, southeast and north west of the Wassa mining lease. These concessions are currently under application and are expected to be granted in 2003.
Exploration activities at Prestea during 2002 concentrated on delineating additional zones of mineralized material amenable to open pit mining. Zones of mineralized materials were delineated along approximately 12 kms of the 22 km Ashanti trend on the Prestea property. These zones were delineated through soil geochemistry and then followed up by RAB and RC drilling. Mineralization on the remaining 10 km portion of Prestea has been defined with soil geochemistry and will be tested during the 2003 exploration programs.
Exploration for 2003 is expected to include both surface and underground evaluation at Prestea. RAB and RC drilling has been planned to test the continuity of mineralization between the Plant North and Beta Boundary pits. Additional drilling has also been planned to better define the Beta Boundary mineralization. RAB drilling to test the 10 km southern extension of the mineralized trend has also been budgeted for 2003.
Compilation of the Prestea Underground data commenced in 2002 and will continue for much of 2003. Underground drilling targets are currently being delineated and drilling is expected to commence in the second half of 2003.
EXPLORATION PROJECTS IN SOUTH AMERICA
Guiana Shield Transaction
In May 2002, we sold our interests in the Gross Rosebel, Headleys and Thunder Mountain properties in Suriname, and our interest in OGML in Guyana, to Cambior.
We received $5.0 million cash in 2002 and $1.0 million in 2003 for the sale of Gross Rosebel and expect to receive two additional deferred payments of $1.0 million each in 2004 and 2005 based on Cambior's development and operation of Gross Rosebel. In addition, Cambior will pay us a royalty equal to 10% of the excess of the average quarterly market price above a gold price hurdle on the first 7 million ounces of gold production from Gross Rosebel. For soft and transitional rock the gold price hurdle is $300 per ounce and for hard rock the gold price hurdle is $350 per ounce.
For the Headleys and Thunder Mountain properties, we will receive a deferred consideration of $0.5 million each, when and if Cambior commences commercial mining from these properties.
As payment for our 30% equity interest and preferred shares in OGML, we received a release and waiver from OGML, Cambior and the Guyana Government in respect of all liabilities, of any nature, related to the Omai gold mine. In the transaction we also acquired Cambior's 50% interests in the Yaou and Dorlin exploration properties in French Guiana.
French Guiana Properties
Most of our properties in South America are now located in French Guiana and held through Guyanor, our 73% owned subsidiary, Guyanor Ressources S.A. ("Guyanor"). French Guiana is part of French national territory and has been an overseas "Departement" of France since 1946. The Departement, with an area of 90,000 square kms and a population of approximately 160,000, has two representatives in the French National Assembly and one representative in the French Senate. Under the French Constitution, French Guiana is governed by the same laws as metropolitan France, subject to modifications (including those affecting tax and mining laws and regulations) that may be adopted to reflect the historical, cultural, geographical and economic characteristics of French Guiana and provide for regional administration.
In French Guiana, artisanal miners illegally work on our properties from time to time. Local government authorities are striving to deal with the situation, but given the remote location of our properties, the situation has still not been fully resolved.
Guyanor is a societe anonyme incorporated under the laws of France on April 20, 1993 with its head and registered offices located at 9 Lot. Mont Joyeux, B.P. 750, 97337 Cayenne-Cedex, French Guiana.
At December 31, 2002, Guyanor owned mineral rights (either directly or through its subsidiaries) for the Yaou, Dorlin and Paul Isnard properties. All of the properties are in the exploration stage. Application was made in September 2002 for a new 5 km by 5 km exploration permit for the Bois Canon exploration property in French Guiana.
On October 18, 2002, our subsidiary Societe des Mines de Saint-Elie s.a.r.l. was sold to Companie Miniere Esperance S.A for $0.5 million.
During 2002 Guyanor spent approximately $0.3 million on care and maintenance of its exploration properties. During 2001, Guyanor spent $1.0 million on exploration and care and maintenance, of which $0.8 million was furnished by a joint venture partner.
YAOU AND DORLIN
The Properties
The Yaou exploration permit covers an area of 52 square kms located some 210 kms southwest of Cayenne, French Guiana. Access to the property is by helicopter or four-wheel drive vehicle on 17 kms of dirt road from the town of Maripasoula, which is accessible by chartered and daily scheduled fixed-wing aircraft from Cayenne.
The Dorlin exploration permit covers an area of 84 square kms located some 180 kms southwest of Cayenne and 60 kms east of Maripasoula. The property is accessible by helicopter and a 500 meter airstrip located on the property is suitable for fixed wing aircraft. Access is also available by boat during the rainy season.
Yaou and Dorlin are owned by an entity called Societe Miniere Yaou and Dorlin S.A.S. ("SMYD"). SMYD was originally established as a joint venture with Guyanor and Cambior each owning a 50% interest. In conjunction with the Guiana Shield Transaction discussed above, Cambior transferred its 50% ownership of SMYD to us in May 2002. Guyanor, our 73% owned subsidiary, retained its 50% interest.
Geology
The geology of the Yaou project area consists of a folded and sheared sequence of Lower "Paramaca" Proterozoic mafic and ultramafic volcanics and volcanoclastics, with minor intercalations of fine-grained clastic sediments. Prior to folding, these were intruded by dioritic bodies. Two generations of granitic plutons bound the property to the east and south. A north-north-west striking dolerite dyke of late Proterozoic age cuts through the property. Exploration has defined three principal zones of gold mineralization, mainly associated with narrow, deformed felsic intrusive bodies and finely laminated felsic tuffs. These zones have been evaluated by deep augering, trenching and core drilling.
The geology of the Dorlin project area consists of sheared and folded greenstone units of Lower Paramaca sequence. Exploration has identified an 11km long zone of soil geochemistry anomalies associated with a radiometric potassium anomaly. Within this anomalous zone one major, N-S trending gold mineralized system, Montagne Nivre, associated with tourmalinization, silicification and pyritization, has been intensively explored by deep auger, trenching and core drilling.
Work Program
In 2002, the Yaou and Dorlin properties remained on care and maintenance. In 2002 and in 2001, expenditures on Yaou and Dorlin totaled less than $0.1 million in each year.
Non Reserves
CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS CONCERNING ESTIMATES OF MEASURED AND INDICATED MINERAL RESOURCES
This section uses the terms "measured mineral resources" and 'indicated mineral resources". We advise U.S. investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them. U.S. INVESTORS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO ASSUME THAT ANY PART OR ALL OF THE MINERAL DEPOSITS IN THESE CATEGORIES WILL EVER BE CONVERTED INTO RESERVES.
Our current share of the Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources for Yaou and Dorlin, including 73% of Guyanor's 50% share and all of our 50% share, is estimated to be 11.9 million tonnes grading 2.1 g/t. This estimate was made at the end of 2000, using a long-term gold price assumption of $300/oz. The Qualified Person responsible for the estimation of Mineral Resource for the Yaou and Dorlin project is Mr. Francis Clouston, our employee, who is a former project evaluation geologist for Cambior with over 20 years of experience in the modeling and assessment of gold and base metal projects. Mr. Clouston is a member of the Canadian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy and the Quebec Order of Engineers. The amount of the Mineral Resource which may have been removed by illegal mining is not known.
PAUL ISNARD
On October 29, 1994, Guyanor acquired an interest in the Paul Isnard exploration projects by way of the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Societe de Travaux Publics et de Mines Auriferes en Guyane ("SOTRAPMAG").
SOTRAPMAG holds eight mineral concessions which will expire on December 31, 2018 but which can be renewed for an additional 25 years. Total area of the original eight concessions is 150 square km.
Guyanor also has additional exploration permits known as Exclusive Exploration permits ("P.E.R."). They were granted to Guyanor on November 30, 1999 for an initial period of three years, covering an area of approximately 283 square kms. Their validity period expired on December 1, 2002. An application for renewal for a five-year period and reduced surface area (100 square km) was sent to the French Administration on July 30, 2002. The application is still under review, awaiting a final decision from the Ministry of Industry.
The Properties
The Paul Isnard project is located in the western part of French Guiana, some 180 kms west of Cayenne. The property is accessible by air or from St-Laurent-du-Maroni, by means of a 115 kms lateritic road. The first 62 kms section of this road is maintained by the government and the remaining 53 kms section by SOTRAPMAG.
Geology
The Paul Isnard project covers a Lower Proterozoic greenstone belt comprised dominantly of mafic metavolcanic rocks with lesser felsic meta volcanic rocks, metavolcaniclastics and meta sediments associated with intermediate, mafic and minor ultramafic intrusives of similar age.
The Decou-Decou mountains located to the south of the property are formed of volcanic rocks that, at the summit, are covered by degraded lateritic layers. The Lucifer mountains to the northeast are formed of basic intrusive rocks. The basin between the mountains is underlain by a Proterozoic sequence of mafic to felsic volcanics and clastic sediments of the Paramaca and Orapu groups, cut by ultramafic to felsic intrusives.
At Montagne D'Or, located on the northern slopes of Decou-Decou, the host stratigraphy for mineralization is a +400 meter thick section of bi-modal felsic and mafic volcanics with lesser volcanoclastics, particularly at the base. The eastern part of the section contains more mafic volcanics than the western section. The section is intruded by a largely post mineral and later deformation swarm of mafic dykes or sills. The section contains at least two unique time stratigraphic horizons marked by chemical sediments and thin lithologically distinctive flows designated as "favorable sequences".
Mineralization consists of two principal types: disseminated zones or stringer mineralization and semi-massive (SMS) mineralization. The SMS occurs mainly within the favorable sequences that can be reasonably correlated between the widely spaced (200 meter) drill sections. Both contain mainly pyrite with lesser pyrrhotite, chalcopyrite, sphalerite and arsenopyrite. A third more localized mineralization type, "highly chloritic one" has also been identified.
Work Program
No work was carried out at Paul Isnard during 2002 other than routine maintenance, and total costs incurred were less than $0.1 million. Total expenditures in 2001 were $1.0 million for Paul Isnard. During 2001 the remaining $6.9 million of deferred exploration costs were also written off bringing the capitalized basis to zero. There is currently no plan for further work in Paul Isnard during 2003.
Non Reserves
CAUTIONARY NOTE TO U.S. INVESTORS CONCERNING ESTIMATES OF MEASURED AND INDICATED MINERAL RESOURCES
This section uses the terms "measured mineral resources" and 'indicated mineral resources". We advise U.S. investors that while those terms are recognized and required by Canadian regulations, the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission does not recognize them. U.S. INVESTORS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO ASSUME THAT ANY PART OR ALL OF THE MINERAL DEPOSITS IN THESE CATEGORIES WILL EVER BE CONVERTED INTO RESERVES.
In 1999 we have estimated our share of Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources to be 4.4 million tonnes grading 2.8 g/t, using a $325 gold price. This reflects only Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource estimated to be present within open pits as modeled by our staff. The Qualified Person responsible for the estimation of resource for the Paul Isnard project was Declan Costelloe, former Manager Mining Geology, for Golden Star. The amount of the Mineral Resource which may have been removed by illegal mining is not known.
Exploitation Authorization Given for Alluvial Mining Titles by Third Parties
Guyanor has granted the right to 16 small-scale mining companies or individuals to apply for Exploitation Authorization on specific areas located at Paul Isnard concessions and exploration permits. The French government created this new type of mining title in connection with revisions to the Mining Code in 2000. This new title, referred to as an "AEX", grants to small-scale alluvial miners the right to mine alluvial deposits on our concessions and exploration permits, within a specific area of one square km. The title-holder of an AEX is responsible for all potential environmental damages. During the period 2000 to 2002, under separate agreements with each AEX applicant, Guyanor received a certain percentage of the value of the gold extracted. However, recent revisions in French Mining law may have exempted AEX holders from such payments. If this royalty exception becomes effective, our AEX royalty income may cease. Guyanor's AEX royalty income was approximately $0.45 million in 2002.
ITEM 3.