ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
MAPS OF OPERATIONS AND PROPERTIES
The maps below show the locations of Bogoso, Prestea, Wassa, the Prestea Underground and Mampon in Ghana, and various exploration properties in Africa and South America. These properties are described in further detail below.
GHANA OPERATIONS AND PROPERTIES MAP
WEST AFRICAN OPERATIONS AND EXPLORATION PROPERTIES MAP
SOUTH AMERICAN PROPERTIES MAP
PROPERTY STATUS TABLE
The chart below summarizes information regarding our more significant properties, which are described in further detail below:
MINING IN GHANA
Ghanaian Ownership and Special Rights
Ghana is situated on the West Coast of Africa, approximately 600 kilometers north of the equator on the Gulf of Guinea. Accra, the capital city of Ghana, is located on the Prime Meridian. Following a period as a British colony, Ghana achieved independence in 1957 and it is now a republic with a democratically elected government. Ghana has a population of approximately 21 million people. English is the official and commercial language. The total land area of the country is approximately 238,000 square kilometers and the topography is relatively flat. Ghana has a tropical climate with two rainy seasons and two dry seasons each year.
Rights to explore and develop a mine are administered by the Minister of Mines through the Minerals Commission, a governmental organization designed to promote and control the development of Ghana's mineral wealth in accordance with the current mining law. A company or individual can apply to the Minerals Commission for a renewable exploration concession granting exclusive rights to explore for a particular mineral in a selected area for a period of two years subject to renewal. When exploration has successfully delineated a mineable mineral reserve, an application is made to the Minerals Commission for conversion to a mining lease, granting a company the right to produce a specific product from the concession area, normally for a period of 20 to 30 years. Production must typically begin within two years of the date of grant of a mining lease.
An amendment made to the current mining law in 1994 requires that any person who intends to acquire a controlling share of the equity of any mining company that has been granted a mining lease by the Government of Ghana shall first give notice of such intention to the Government and obtain its consent prior to acquiring such controlling share.
In accordance with the current mining law, the Government of Ghana is granted a 10% carried interest in all companies such as BGL and WGL that hold mining leases. The 10% carried interest entitles the Government of Ghana to a pro-rata share of future dividends (none have been declared to date), if any, from BGL and WGL once all capital is repaid, and the Government of Ghana has no obligation to contribute development or operating expenses. BGL and WGL owe $142.5 million and $120.6 million, respectively, to Golden Star or its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2005 for past advances, and these amounts would be repaid to us before payment of any dividends. Under the current mining law the Government of Ghana is entitled to acquire up to an additional 20% interest in our operating companies. If the Government of Ghana wished to exercise this right, it must first give reasonable notice, and pay a mutually agreed price. Under the new Minerals and Mining bill, which will become law when it receives Presidential assent, expected later in 2006, the Government of Ghana would no longer have the right to acquire this additional interest.
The Government of Ghana is also entitled to acquire a special or golden share in BGL or WGL or any mining company at any time for no consideration or such consideration as the Government of Ghana and BGL or WGL might agree. The special share would constitute a separate class of shares with such rights as the Government of Ghana and BGL or WGL might agree. In the absence of such agreement, the special share would have the following rights:
o the special share would carry no voting rights, but the holder would be entitled to receive notice of and attend and speak at any general meeting of the members or any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares;
o the special share could only be issued to, held by, or transferred to the Government or a person acting on behalf of the Government;
o the written consent of the holder of the special share would be required for all amendments to the organizational documents of the company, the voluntary winding-up or liquidation of the company or the disposal of any mining lease or the whole or any material part of the assets of the company; and
o the holder of the special share would be entitled to the payment of a nominal sum of 1,000 Ghanaian Cedis in a winding-up or liquidation of the company in priority to any payment to other members and could require the company to redeem the special share at any time for a nominal sum of 1,000 Cedis.
BGL and WGL have not issued nor to date been requested to issue any such special share to the Government of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana has a pre-emptive right to purchase all gold and other minerals produced by BGL and WGL. The purchase price would be agreed by the Government of Ghana and BGL and WGL, or the price established by any gold hedging arrangement between BGL or WGL and any third party approved by the Government, or the publicly quoted market price prevailing for the minerals or products as delivered at the mine or plant where the right of preemption was exercised. The Government of Ghana has agreed to take no preemptive action pursuant to its right to purchase gold or other minerals so long as BGL and WGL sell gold in accordance with certain procedures approved by the Bank of Ghana.
The existing legal structure for mining in Ghana has been under review with the intent to make it more competitive and bring it in line with international best practice. To this end the new Minerals and Mining Bill was placed before the Ghanaian parliament in late 2004. After being subjected to public critique by various stakeholders, a revised bill was considered by the Ghanaian Parliament and passed in late December 2005. The new law will come into force when it has been given Presidential assent and gazette notification as required by the Ghana constitution. Based on currently available information, we do not believe that the implementation of the new Bill will have a material impact on our operations in Ghana.
Ghanaian Royalty Requirements
Under the laws of Ghana, a holder of a mining lease is required to pay quarterly a royalty of not less than 3% per annum and not more than 12% per annum of the total revenues earned from the lease area. Under the new Minerals and Mining Bill, the upper limit on the royalty would be capped at 6%. The Government of Ghana determines the royalty percentage each year based on the ratio that the operating margin bears to the value of gold produced from a mining lease in that year. Based on the Mineral Royalty Regulation of 1987, the royalty is 3% when the operating ratio is 30% or less, the royalty increases 0.225% for each 1% increase in operating ratio until the royalty reaches a maximum of 12% (see above) at an operating ratio of 70%. In 2005, 2004 and 2003 the royalty rate for BGL was 3% of revenues and BGL paid $1.8 million, $1.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively. The royalty payments from BGL have not exceeded 3% per annum in any year. WGL also paid a 3% royalty in 2005 or $0.9 million.
Ghanaian Environmental Regulations
All environmental matters in Ghana, including those related to mining, fall under the oversight of the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). The EPA has formulated rules and guidelines which govern environmental impact statements, mine operations, and mine closure and reclamation, to which our operations are subject.
In conformance with EPA requirements, we posted reclamation bonds for the Wassa and Bogoso/Prestea properties in 2005. We bonded $3.0 million to cover future reclamation obligations at Wassa comprised of a $2.85 million letter of credit and cash deposit of $0.15 million. We also bonded $9.45 million for Bogoso/Prestea comprised of an $8.55 million letter of credit and $0.9 million of cash. Signed bonding agreements are now in place for both Wassa and Bogoso/Prestea.
BGL completed significant work during 1999 to identify the outstanding reclamation liabilities for Bogoso/Prestea and to prepare a rehabilitation work plan. Significant work has been performed since that time to advance this plan and to reduce the outstanding historic reclamation liability. Expenditures for ongoing rehabilitation work, including the capping of sulfide material, back-filling of worked out pits, and the contouring and re-vegetation of waste dumps, were approximately $0.7 million, $0.7 million and $0.8 million in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. In addition to the bonds detailed above, as at December 31, 2005, BGL still had $3.4 million of restricted cash set aside for environmental reclamation of the Bogoso mine since 1999 when we purchased Bogoso from the International Finance Corporation and a consortium of banks.
The Plant-North pit at Prestea has been developed in stages with the development of the final stage (Phase 3) commencing in August 2005. Initiation of Phase 3 mining was conditional on a number of mitigation measures identified in our Environmental Impact Statement. The EPA requested suspension of mining of the Plant-North Phase 3 pit on September 13, 2005 and of the Plant-North pit on September 28, 2005 until certain outstanding mitigation measures were completed. The mitigation measures were completed and inspected by the EPA on October 19, 2005. On November 1, 2005, we received approval from the EPA to recommence mining operations at the Plant-North pit and mining activity was recommenced a few days later following a series of informational meetings with the Prestea community.
During the mining suspension at Plant-North, processing operations continued at the Bogoso processing plant using stockpiled ore. Mining and processing operations at the Wassa mine and construction activities on the Bogoso sulfide expansion project also continued without interruption.
To our knowledge, all our operations in Ghana are currently in substantial compliance with all environmental requirements.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS AND SUSTAINABILITY
It is our policy and our intent to be a responsible corporate citizen of Ghana and in all other areas where we conduct our business. We believe our success as an employer, as a citizen of the local community and as a participant in the local economy is dependent on achieving and maintaining good community relationships. As such, we strive to accommodate and support local efforts to improve the economic and overall well being of the communities around our operations.
Alternative Livelihood and Sustainable Development Program (ALSD) - In mid-2001 we initiated the ALSD program in the Bogoso/Prestea area and expanded the program during 2004 to include Wassa. The goals of the ALSD program are to assist the communities in the vicinity of our mining operations to create alternative employment opportunities, promote growth of sustainable economic development and to reduce the community's dependence on mining.
Given the importance of agriculture in the local economy, much of our efforts have been focused on agricultural opportunities.
Palm Oil - Palm oil is a major cash crop for many farmers in Southern Ghana and based on the historical success of Ghana's palm oil industry, we believe palm oil farming has the potential to make a significant contribution to the local community's economic development. Palm oil production requires land. Historically the economic base of many of the communities surrounding our operations has been based on mine employment. As a result many of the residents have not acquired land and have thus been excluded from farming in general and the palm oil business specifically.
In the past three years we have assisted and trained in excess of 300 local residents to establish palm oil plantations on approximately 1,050 acres of reclaimed waste rock dumps and other areas around our mines. In 2006 we plan to initiate a new four-year program to significantly expand on the success of our initial palm oil program. To this end we have procured about 2,400 acres of additional land holding and aim to increase this to 5,000 acres of additional land in 2006. The land will be used to expand the palm oil cooperative program providing employment and eventual land ownership to as many as 2,000 local residents. We are also negotiating with a business partner in the palm oil business who will assist by providing a processing facility and a market for the oil. These plantations should fully mature in about three years with an expected yield of about 4,200 metric tonnes of fresh fruit bunch annually.
Fish Farm - We have established a fish farm in one of the completed pits at Bogoso. The fish have done well and we now estimate there are approximately 10 tonnes of fish ready for harvesting. We hope that the success of this project will encourage development of private fish farms in the local communities.
Sericulture - We have established a mulberry plantation and silk worm rearing facility at Bogoso. Thirty local farmers are now participating in this project and have to date produced 45 kilograms of silk cocoons.
Poultry - Our demonstration farm is also training and assisting local farmers with poultry production. A ban on importation of poultry products from several countries due to bird flu concerns has created this opportunity for local farmers. The program has implemented 12 poultry projects with 2,650 chicks in ten communities. The poultry project will focus on egg production.
Other Projects - Other projects we are supporting or plan to support in 2006 include snail farming, mushrooms, citrus production and vocational training.
In collaboration with government agencies, the Ghana Department of Cooperatives is assisting us in developing the project beneficiary groups into commodity based associations including the Oil Palm Farmers Association, Poultry Farmers Association and Sericulture Farmers Association and four Ministry of Agriculture staff are providing technical support to the beneficiary farmers in the areas surrounding our operations. Other contacts have been made with local and international non-governmental organizations in developing micro-credit schemes on behalf of the company.
Community Assistance Programs - In addition to the alternative livelihood projects described above, we are involved in the ongoing funding of several community assistance projects. Over the past few years we have provided funding and assistance for school improvements and equipment, libraries, day care centers, community centers, potable water systems and wells, sports facilities, toilet facilities, electrification projects, health facilities, road improvements and hospital equipment.
At our corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado the employees and their family members initiated a book donation program in late 2005 seeking to obtain 150,000 books which will be used to stock libraries in the communities around our operations. To date approximately 25,000 volumes have been donated, sorted and packed for shipment. Local high school student volunteers have done most of the sorting and packing. The books acquired to date include a wide assortment of topics including primary and secondary school texts, children's books, novels, reference, travel and general interest books.
Endowment Fund - In late 2005, we established two endowment funds in Ghana, one at Wassa and one at Bogoso. The purposes of the endowment funds are to promote and facilitate sustainable socio-economic development and to improve the quality of life in the communities surrounding our operations and in 2006 we will transition to channeling all of our community assistance programs through these funds. The funds will provide funding for development projects and charitable causes. The fund will receive periodic cash contributions from BGL and WGL based on gold production and net income.
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Bogoso/Prestea Gold Mine
Overview of the Bogoso/Prestea Operation
Bogoso/Prestea consists of a gold mining and processing operation located along the Ashanti Trend in western Ghana, approximately 35 kilometers northwest of the town of Tarkwa. It can be reached by paved roads from Tarkwa and from Accra, the capital of Ghana. Bogoso and Prestea are adjoining mining concessions that together cover approximately 40 kilometers of strike of the southwest trending Ashanti gold district. The mining areas at Prestea are linked to the Bogoso processing plant by approximately 12 kilometers of paved and gravel haul-roads located on our properties. Equipment and facilities at Bogoso/Prestea include several open pit mines, a nominal 6,000 tonne per day CIL gold processing plant and a fleet of haul trucks, loaders and mining support equipment. In addition, there are numerous ancillary support facilities such as power and water supply equipment, haul roads, housing for management and technical staff, a medical clinic, tailings storage facility, waste dumps, warehouse, maintenance shops, offices and administrative facilities. The Bogoso/Prestea properties and mining rights are granted under four mining leases, which expire on or after August 2017.
Commercial mining at Bogoso dates back to the early years of the 20th century. During its 20-year period of operations from 1935 to 1955, production totaled over 900,000 ounces of gold at an average recovered grade of 3.73 g/t. From 1873 to 1965, the current Prestea property was comprised of a number of different licenses operated by independent mining companies, which in 1965 were amalgamated by the Government of Ghana into Prestea Goldfields Limited, under the aegis of the State Gold Mining Corporation.
Total gold production from the Prestea area since recorded mining commenced in the 1870s is reported by the Ghana Mineral Commission to be in excess of nine million ounces, making it the second largest historical gold producing area in Ghana, after the Obuasi mine.
We acquired Bogoso in late 1999 and all of our production came from reserves located on the Bogoso concession until October 2001 when we commenced surface mining on the adjoining Prestea concession. The Prestea concession was acquired in mid-2001. From 1999 through 2005 we have produced 811,800 ounces of gold from Bogoso/Prestea.
Operating Results for Bogoso/Prestea
The following table displays historical operating results at Bogoso/Prestea.
(1) Gold production is shown on a 100% basis, which represents our current beneficial interest in gold production and revenues. Once all capital has been repaid, the Government of Ghana would receive 10% of the dividends from the subsidiaries owning the Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa mines.
Bogoso/Prestea Expansion Project
Gold ore reserves in general and specifically at Bogoso/Prestea can be segregated into two general ore types referred to as "refractory" and "non-refractory." Refractory ores typically contain un-oxidized sulfide minerals with the gold trapped within the sulfide minerals. Such ores are also commonly referred to as "sulfide" ores and they cannot be economically processed in conventional CIL circuits such as our existing Bogoso processing plant.
Non-refractory ores typically contain no sulfides or the sulfide minerals have been naturally oxidized. There are also certain sulfide ores that are non-refractory if the gold exists on surface of the sulfide minerals rather than embedded within the sulfide minerals. Ores that have been naturally oxidized are referred to as "oxide" ores. Non-refractory ores, including oxide ores, can be efficiently processed through the existing Bogoso CIL processing plant.
Since 75% of the remaining ore reserves at Bogoso/Prestea are refractory and cannot be processed by our existing plant, a decision was made in June 2005 to construct a new 3.5 million tonne per annum processing facility at Bogoso, located next to the existing non-refractory processing plant, which will utilize a proprietary BIOX(R) bio-oxidation technology to treat the refractory sulfide ore. When completed in late 2006, the new sulfide plant together with the existing CIL plant, are expected to be able to process a combined 5.0 million tonnes per year of ore. Completion on schedule and anticipated production levels for the new facility are subject to a number of risks, including the issuance in a timely manner of all necessary development and operating permits.
The existing CIL processing plant will retain its current configuration and will continue to process non-refractory ores during the construction phase of the new BIOX(R) plant. After the new BIOX(R) plant comes on line, it is anticipated that the existing Bogoso CIL processing plant will process mostly oxide ores and the BIOX(R) plant will process mostly refractory sulfide ores and mixed oxide-refractory ores. The two plants sitting side-by-side are expected to provide operational efficiencies since they will share management, labor, reagents, warehouse parts and maintenance efforts. And with the two plants and their differing technologies, we should be able to effectively process all of the ore types known to exist in the Bogoso/Prestea area.
Construction work on the BIOX(R) plant is proceeding within schedule and budget. Ordering of long lead-time items is substantially complete as is the detailed engineering design. Concrete work is well progressed for all of the equipment. The stainless steel BIOX(R) reactor tanks have been erected and structural steel erection has commenced. Erection of the CIL tanks is also nearing completion which will allow structural steel erection to also commence in this area. The electrical contractor has mobilized and has commenced work. The crusher and new SAG mill were shipped to Ghana in March and the ball mill is already on site and mounted on its pedestal.
The design and construction of the expansion project is being managed by GRD Minproc on an engineering, procurement and construction management basis. Work has proceeded under a letter of agreement entered into in February 2005 and a definitive contract is expected to be finalized shortly.
Pre-stripping of two sulfide pits in readiness for the commissioning of the BIOX(R) plant has already commenced and will be accelerated when additional trucks are delivered, commencing in April 2006. The non-refractory plant will continue to process non-refractory ores from the Plant-North pit at Prestea until completion of mining in the fourth quarter of 2006. Afterward we plan to feed the non-refractory plant with oxide ores from Pampe, Mampon and various areas on the south end of the Prestea property.
We estimate that the total capital cost of the new sulfide plant project, including the expansion of the mining fleet, to be approximately $125 million, and we expect a 15 to 18 month construction period, ending in late 2006. At the end of 2005, approximately $36 million of the total had been spent.
In 2007, following the completion of the BIOX(R) plant, we expect the combined gold production from the two Bogoso plants to be approximately 370,000 ounces per annum at an average cash operating cost of $330 per ounce. Based on our test work, we expect gold recoveries from the BIOX(R) process to average 86% and vary between 78% and 88%.
Geology at Bogoso/Prestea
The Bogoso/Prestea property lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield along a 40 kilometer stretch of the Ashanti Trend located immediately south of the town of Bogoso. The area is dominated by a major northeast-southwest trending structural fault zone referred to as the Ashanti Trend, which hosts the Prestea, Bogoso, Obuasi and Konongo gold deposits, among others. Parallel to the Ashanti Trend is the Akropong Trend, which hosts the Ayanfuri deposit. The Akropong Trend is about 15 kilometers west of the Ashanti Trend in the Bogoso region, and gradually converges with it, converging at Obuasi and forming the basis for the Obuasi deposit, owned and operated by AngloGold Ashanti Limited.
Mineral Reserves and Non-Reserve Mineral Resources at Bogoso/Prestea
Bogoso/Prestea has proven and probable Mineral Reserves, excluding the Mineral Reserves at Mampon discussed below, of 33.3 million tonnes at a grade of 2.69 g/t containing approximately 2.88 million ounces of gold (before any reduction for the Government of Ghana's 10% minority interest). Total measured and indicated Mineral Resources, excluding those Mineral Resources at Mampon and Pampe discussed below, total 20.7 million tonnes with a grade of 2.18 g/t before a reduction for the 10% minority interest. Assuming no new reserves are discovered, the current proven and probable Mineral Reserves should support mining operations for approximately seven years, although we expect the mine life to be extended as we continue to evaluate mineral resources through ongoing exploration efforts. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table and the Non-Reserves - Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource table in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Exploration at Bogoso/Prestea
Exploration activities on the Bogoso property in 2005 focused on defining and expanding the sulfide reserves in advance of initiation of a sulfide ore pre-strip program in early 2006. The drilling also focused on requirements to finalize pit designs at Chujah and Buesichem. These two pits are scheduled to provide sulfide feed to the new sulfide plant in 2006, 2007 and into 2008. In addition, drilling at other areas at Bogoso was conducted to understand and expand the sulfide reserves beneath several of the other old oxide pits. A total of $7.5 million was spent on exploration at Bogoso in 2005.
Surface exploration drilling on the Prestea property during 2005 was limited to the evaluation of shallow underground targets in the Plant-North pit vicinity. While results in areas drilled during 2005 were not encouraging, other zones directly beneath the Plant-North pit will be tested in 2006. A Bogoso/Prestea regional geologic mapping program initiated in 2004 continued during 2005. The program will cover approximately 265 square kilometers around the Bogoso and Prestea properties when completed in early 2006.
The Mampon Project
The Mampon deposit, which is located within the Dunkwa properties, is approximately 35 kilometers north of the Bogoso processing plant. It was acquired in 2003, as part of the Dunkwa property acquisition. An analysis of the drilling and other geologic data provided by the former owner as well as our own drilling in 2004 and 2005 has established a probable reserve of approximately 1.6 million tonnes grading 4.53 grams per tonne or approximately 230,000 ounces of gold which is accessible by open pit mining methods. The geology of the
Mampon deposit is similar to the geology at Bogoso/Prestea. Our current plan is to haul the Mampon ore by truck to the Bogoso processing plant to supplement ores from the Bogoso/Prestea deposits. Our current long-term plan calls for mining Mampon in 2007 and 2008. Mampon ore is approximately 50% refractory and 50% non-refractory.
The Pampe Project
The Pampe deposit is located approximately 19 kilometers west of the Bogoso processing plant on the Akropong trend. While we have owned the rights to Pampe for several years, drilling during 2005 identified a measured and indicated resource of 0.2 million tonnes at an average grade of 4.4 g/t most of which is either oxide ore or non-refractory sulfide ore and most of which should be recoverable by open pit mining methods. Permitting for this project is now underway and haul road construction is scheduled for 2006. We expect to commence mining at Pampe before the end of 2006.
Bondaye/Tuapim Area
Due to the presence of illegal miners no work was carried out on the south end of the Prestea property during 2005. Once the illegal miner situation is resolved, we anticipate additional exploration work in these areas with the ultimate goal of mining oxide ores for the Bogoso oxide plant after 2007. We also expect to further investigate initially the shallow and ultimately the deeper underground potential of this area.
The Wassa Gold Mine
Overview of the Wassa Gold Mine
The Wassa gold mine located approximately 35 kilometers east of Bogoso/Prestea, was initially developed in the late 1990s by a consortium of European mining companies and consisted of an open pit mine, a crusher and a conventional heap leach operation. While operating as a heap leach property, Wassa produced approximately 90,000 ounces of gold per annum for a period of just over two years beginning in 1999 and ending in mid-2001 when mining operations were suspended.
In September 2002 WGL, our 90% owned subsidiary, acquired the inactive Wassa gold property located 35 kilometers east of Bogoso/Prestea. As with Bogoso/Prestea, the Government of Ghana holds a 10% carried interest which entitles it to 10% of any future dividends (none have been declared to date). Dividend payments will not be made until WGL has repaid all contributed capital and shareholder advances to Golden Star.
In late 2003, following completion of a feasibility study we initiated construction of a nominal 3.5 million tonnes per year (10,000 tonne per day) CIL processing plant at Wassa. The construction phase ended in early 2005, and the Wassa open-pit mine and plant was placed in service on April 1, 2005. In the nine months ended December 31, 2005, Wassa processed 2.7 million tonnes of ore at an average grade of 0.91 grams per tonne and shipped 69,070 ounces of gold at an average total cash cost per ounce of $482. Plant feed is a mixture of newly mined ore from the Wassa pit blended with material from the heap leach pads left by the prior owners.
During 2006, we expect to produce approximately 120,000 ounces of gold at Wassa at an average cash operating cost of approximately $340 per ounce. We expect production to increase and unit costs to decline later in 2006 and beyond as we expose higher grade ores at deeper levels in the pit and also resolve certain plant design issues which have limited plant through-put to less than design capacity since its in-service date. In 2007, we expect annual gold production of approximately 130,000 ounces per year, at an average cash operating cost of around $340 per ounce. The reserves at Wassa at the end of 2005 should be sufficient to support operations to early 2011.
Geology at Wassa
Wassa lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield. The Proterozoic rocks that comprise most of the West African craton and host the major gold mineralization in Ghana are subdivided into metasedimentary and volcanic rocks of the Birimian and Tarkwaian sequences.
Wassa is hosted within the same Birimian volcano-sedimentary greenstone package as Bogoso/Prestea. Wassa is situated on the southeastern limb of the Tarkwa Syncline while Bogoso and Prestea occur along the northwestern limb. The northwestern belt hosts the Obuasi, Prestea, and Bogoso gold mines but the southeastern limb also is characterized by gold mines and mineral occurrences. Tarkwaian-hosted deposits along the southeastern limb include Goldfield's Tarkwa and Abosso mines, while Birimian-hosted gold occurrences include our Hwini-Butre concession and Wassa.
Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources at Wassa
At December 31, 2005, Wassa has a probable mineral reserve of 21.9 million tonnes with an average grade of 1.34 g/t containing approximately 0.94 million ounces of gold before any reduction for the Government of Ghana's 10% minority interest. Total indicated mineral resources consist of 11.3 million tonnes with a grade of approximately 0.76 g/t before any reduction for the 10% minority interest. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table and the Non-Reserves - Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource table in Item 1 of this 10-K.
Exploration at Wassa
Exploration activities at Wassa during 2005 concentrated on RC drilling of two parallel geochemical anomalies identified in 2004 which extend southwest approximately 2 kilometers from the main pit area. Other than one narrow zone that typically carried 3 to 3.5 grams per tonne, results were not encouraging. Various other geochemical anomalies were also tested at Wassa by RAB drilling during 2005 and while most of these projects are at a very preliminary stage, results were encouraging with several intercepts at various places on the property exceeding minimum ore grades. Work continued on the South Akyempim zone discovered in 2004. We have now identified approximately 2.7 million tonnes of near-surface ore at an average grade of 1.47 grams per tonne in this area and we have initiated the process to acquire mining permits to allow mining of this deposit in the second half of 2006.
EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN GHANA
Prestea Underground
Overview
The Prestea Underground is an inactive underground gold operation located directly beneath our Prestea property consisting of two operating shafts and extensive underground workings and support facilities. Support facilities include an administrative office, maintenance shops, a warehouse and electrical substations. Access to the mine site is via a paved road from Tarkwa and Accra maintained by the Government of Ghana. Any potential future production from the Prestea Underground would most likely be trucked to the Bogoso processing plant for processing.
The Prestea Underground has produced approximately nine million ounces of gold, the second highest production of any mine in Ghana. The underground workings are extensive, reaching depths of approximately 1,400 meters and extending along a strike length of approximately ten kilometers. Underground workings can currently be accessed via two shafts, one near the town of Prestea and a second approximately four kilometers to the southwest. Underground operations ceased in early 2002, following an extended period of low gold prices. In March 2002, our subsidiary BGL entered into a joint venture agreement with the former owners to further explore and evaluate the remaining potential of the underground operations.
In late 2003, our partner in the Prestea Underground joint venture filed for bankruptcy in Ghana. Our partner's position, under the provisions of the joint venture agreement has now reverted to a 2.5% net profits interest, which is currently controlled by the former partner's bankruptcy trustee. Since there is currently no production from the Prestea Underground mine there is no net profit to share with our bankrupt partner. BGL now holds a 90% ownership in the Prestea Underground. The Government of Ghana continues to hold a 10% ownership in Prestea Underground as well as its 10% holding in BGL, resulting in an 81% beneficial ownership by Golden Star.
Geology of Prestea Underground
The Prestea deposits are found along the Ashanti Trend which extends over 220 kilometers and which accounts for 80% to 90% of the total quartz lode-hosted gold extracted in Ghana. Other mines located along the same shear are our Bogoso pits and the Obuasi and Konongo mines owned by others.
Two types of gold hosts have historically been recognized at Prestea: fault-related hydrothermal quartz veins; and disseminated sulfide-hosted gold mineralization associated with metavolcanic pods. The first type of ore was the focus of intense mining during Prestea's past production. We intend to evaluate both types of mineralization.
Mineral Resources at Prestea Underground
As of December 31, 2005 we have identified total non-reserve inferred mineral resources at the Prestea Underground of 6.1 million tonnes at an average grade of 8.1 g/t before any reduction for the 19% minority interest.
Exploration Activities at Prestea Underground
A total of 8,096 meters of underground exploration drilling was completed at the Prestea Underground during 2005. The drilling focused on testing extensions of the high grade West Reef shoot between levels 17-24 (a depth of between 700 and 900 meters) and also prospective zones of remnant mineralization lying below and to the south of the Plant-North pit which could be exploited via a decline at the base of the pit. Results from both these areas have been encouraging with drilling to continue in 2006.
A deep surface hole at Bondaye was initiated during 2004 to test the down plunge extension of high grade mineralization to approximately 250 meters below the extent of current historical workings. Although technical problems and delays were seen in 2004, the drilling was completed mid 2005 for a total of 2,109 meters including a parent hole to 1,604 meters and a "wedged" daughter hole to 1,504 meters. Only spotty, discontinuous gold mineralization was encountered in the reef zone at both the parent and daughter hole. However this may simply reflect the typical "pinch and swell" character of the Prestea reef system and cannot be considered a definitive test of the Bondaye plunge potential.
Total spending on long term assets at Prestea Underground totaled $12.1 million in 2005, up from $7.1 million during 2004. Spending in 2005 included $2.6 million on underground drilling and other geological activities, $5.8 million on feasibility work, $2.3 million on dewatering, security and site maintenance, and $1.4 million on equipment purchases. Support crews continue to maintain the underground and surface facilities in good working order and assist the underground drilling teams.
By the end of 2005, dewatering efforts had cleared the lowest sections of the old underground workings and an extensive underground drilling program has been initiated which will continue during most of 2006 to test areas immediately below the deepest old workings. We believe these deeper levels provide the best opportunities for significant new discoveries in the Prestea Underground. We intend to complete an initial feasibility study by the end of 2006 evaluating the economic potential of restarting production from the Prestea Underground mine.
St. Jude Properties
The St. Jude Properties were acquired in late December 2005 as part of the St. Jude acquisition. These properties consist of the Hwini-Butre and Benso gold concessions (prospecting licenses) at the southeastern end of the Ashanti gold belt region in Ghana. While we now hold a 100% interest in these properties (through our subsidiaries), the Government of Ghana will become entitled to a 10% carried interest at the time mining permits are granted.
The Hwini-Butre concession is located approximately 80 kilometers south of Wassa and occupies an area of approximately 180 square kilometers. St. Jude and its predecessors have previously carried out numerous exploration programs on the concessions and identified two significant zones of gold mineralization.
The St. Jude Properties also include the Benso concession, located in the Tarkwa District, directly north of the Hwini-Butre concession and about 40 kilometers south of Wassa. The Benso concession covers an area of approximately 21 square kilometers, and consists of three blocks: the Amantin, Subriso, and Chichiwelli blocks. St. Jude and its predecessors previously conducted a geochemical soil sampling survey over the Benso concession and drill programs on the three blocks.
We commenced our own exploration activities on the St. Jude Properties in early 2006, and have budgeted approximately $4.6 million for the program in 2006.
The Hwini-Butre and Benso concessions lie along the southeastern flank of the Birimian-aged (lower Proterozoic) Ashanti Belt, along the same structural trend as Wassa. The southwestern part of the Hwini-Butre concession covers the Mpohor Complex, a syn-volcanic mafic intrusive that is bound to the east and north by the Butre volcanic sequence. The Mpohor Complex is a polyphase intrusion with compositions ranging from gabbroic to granophyric, with intermediate phases such as diorite and granodiorite. The Butre volcanic sequence, which also underlies the Benso concession further north, mostly comprises volcanic flows with minor metasediment horizons. The main regional structural orientation trends northeasterly but extensive north to northwest trending cross-cutting fracture systems are also well developed. The latter host much of the mineralization in
the district, with vein systems at Dabokrom, Father Brown, Adoikrom, the Subriso zones and Amantin located within or marginal to the Mpohor Complex. Mineralization on the Hwini-Butre concession is typically associated with shallowly east-dipping narrow quartz veins and their associated sericitic alteration halos, with coarse free gold associated with sulfides and as specks within the quartz veins and altered host rocks. In contrast, mineralization at Subriso West and Central Subriso forms a series of relatively steep dipping, north-trending zones characterized by strong shearing and pervasive silica replacement with local silica flooding and only minor thin quartz veining.
Studies will be carried out during 2006 to determine if ore from the St. Jude Properties should be hauled to the Wassa plant for processing or if a stand-alone processing plant should be built in the general vicinity of the St. Jude Properties.
Akropong Trend Properties
During 2005, we continued working on the Akropong Trend properties located approximately 10 to 20 kilometers to the west of Bogoso/Prestea. The objective of this work was to identify additional mineral reserve opportunities in the immediate vicinity of Bogoso/Prestea that could, in the future, provide additional sources of processing plant feed for the Bogoso processing plants. As explained above, drilling at the Pampe property established a measured and indicated resource at Pampe during 2005. The other Akropong Trend projects are still at an early stage of exploration and to date they do not have, and ultimately might not have, proven and probable mineral reserves.
We spent approximately $1.4 million on Akropong projects during 2005 compared to $0.4 million in 2004. Most of the Akropong spending was related to RAB and RC drilling at the Pampe property.
Dunkwa Properties (including Mampon)
Overview of the Dunkwa Properties
In 2003, we purchased two prospecting licenses, Asikuma and Mansiso, along the Ashanti Trend from Birim Goldfields Inc., which we refer to as the Dunkwa properties. These properties cover 45 kilometers of strike along the Ashanti Trend directly north of and contiguous with the current Bogoso concession. They are accessible by Ghanaian public roads. The addition of the Asikuma and Mansiso prospecting licenses, which cover 56 and 69 square kilometers, respectively, increases our property holdings along the trend to over 100 kilometers in length. In 2003, we also acquired from Ashanti Goldfields Company Limited the rights to the Mampon prospect located on the Asikuma license. Ore from Mampon is expected to be trucked to the Bogoso processing plant commencing in 2007.
The Mampon prospect was discovered in 1988 using regional geochemical methods and consists of narrow quartz veins with strong pyrite and arsenopyrite mineralization in the wall rocks ranging up to 15% total sulfides. These prospects are also associated with shearing and/or graphitic faults, similar to those seen at Bogoso. There are five known gold prospects on the Dunkwa concession. All of these occur in the same approximate stratigraphic position within lower Birimian sediments from 1 to 1.5 kilometers west of the contact with the Birimian metavolcanics.
Exploration Activities at the Dunkwa Properties
Most of the work on the Dunkwa properties during 2005 was focused on the Mampon area where data was gathered to assist in pit design for surface mining now scheduled for late 2007. Late in 2005 we began a drilling program on an unexplored nine kilometer section of the property covered by Opon river valley sediments which coincides with a conductivity anomaly. Spending in the Dunkwa area totaled $1.4 million in 2005.
Regional Activities in Ghana
In 2005, we continued with several early stage regional projects in southern Ghana by conducting geochemical surveys over extensive areas to the east and south of the Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa areas extending east to within 30 kilometers of Accra (see map at the beginning of Item 2 Description of Properties.) This work has identified gold anomalies which will be followed up with additional sampling in 2006. We applied for and received prospecting licenses on these properties, referred to as Breman-Asikuma and Takoradi North.
OTHER EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN AFRICA
Mano River Joint Venture, Sierra Leone
In late 2003 we entered into a joint venture agreement with Mano River Resources Inc., which holds seven gold properties in Sierra Leone totaling approximately 750 square kilometers. A diamond core drilling program commenced in mid-March 2004 at the Yirisen prospect on the North Pampana license, and 26 holes were completed. Grades and gold mineralization proved to be variable and discontinuous. However, due to the prospective nature of the local area, as evidenced by numerous artisanal workings and favorable geology, a reconnaissance soil sampling program was initiated over all the joint venture properties in late 2004 which continued into 2005. Final assay results were received near the end of the third quarter 2005 and showed anomalies worthy of follow up on the Pampana and Sonfon projects. In the meantime, it has been agreed with our joint venture partner, Mano River Resources Inc., that the earn-in period will be extended by 12 months. A minimum of $750,000 is budgeted for exploration on this project in 2006.
Moto Goldmines Investment
Moto Goldmines Limited ("Moto") is a Canadian listed gold exploration company which focuses its activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in central Africa. At the end of 2005 we owned approximately 11.1% or five million of Moto's outstanding common shares plus warrants to acquire a further one million shares before June 2006 at an exercise price of Australian $2.25 per share. Our Vice President of Exploration serves on Moto's board of directors. In March 2006, we exercised the remaining warrants, at a cost of $1.7 million, bringing our total ownership to six million shares and immediately afterward sold all the shares in a bought-deal transaction in Canada for Cdn$7.50 per share for net proceeds to Golden Star of Cdn$45.0 million ($38.9 million).
Afema, Cote d'Ivoire
In March 2005, we entered into an option to purchase the Afema project in Cote d'Ivoire from the Ivorian parastatal company Societe d'Etat pour le Developpement Minier de la Cote d'Ivoire (`SO.DE.MI."). The Afema property covers an area of 2,012 square kilometers of prospective Birimian rocks in south east Cote d'Ivoire which represent the southeastern extension of the Sefwi Belt meta-volcanics and the Kumasi Basin meta-sedimentary rocks. In Ghana this `belt-basin' contact hosts the multi-million ounce Chirano and Bibiani gold deposits. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, we made an immediate payment of $0.1 million to SO.DE.MI. which gave us the right to carry out a six month detailed technical due diligence, after which we will have the right to complete the transaction to acquire 100% of SO.DE.MI.'s rights in the Afema property for $1.5 million (subject to a statutory 10% interest by the Government of Cote d'Ivoire). If we proceed with the acquisition, in addition to the acquisition payments, Golden Star will pay to SO.DE.MI. a royalty on future gold production from the Afema property indexed to the gold price. At current gold prices (in the range of $550 per ounce) the royalty rate would be 2.5%.
Golden Star undertook an intensive exploration program at Afema during the six months following signing of the option, including the collection and analysis of over 12,000 soil samples and compilation and assessment of previous exploration data. Despite this work, we were unable to come to a definitive decision on the merits of the project and hence a six month extension to the option period was requested, which SO.DE.MI. has granted. We plan to use the extension to continue the assessment of previous data and to complete infill sampling and trenching of some of the better anomalies defined by the initial program. Approximately $1.0 million was spent on this project in 2005, and a further $2.2 million (including the option exercise payment) is budgeted for 2006.
Goulagou, Burkina Faso
We hold an 80% beneficial interest in the Goulagou and adjoining Rounga gold properties, which were acquired as part of the St. Jude acquisition in late 2005. Together the two contiguous properties cover approximately 691 square kilometers and are located approximately 100 kilometers west of Ouagadougou, the capital city of Burkina Faso, and 20 kilometers north of the city of Ouahigouya. Drilling program carried out by St. Jude and their predecessors identified several areas of gold enrichment including two parallel gold mineralized zones on the Goulagou property.
Deba and Tialkam Projects, Niger
The Deba and Tialkam properties are gold exploration properties in Niger acquired as part of the St. Jude acquisition in late 2005. Through our subsidiary, St. Jude, we hold a 100% interest in the two exploration permits, subject to the 10% interest of the Government of Niger. St. Jude obtained certain data from exploration carried out by previous owners and initiated a new drilling program in late 2005. The first phase results of the drilling program are being evaluated.
Mininko, Mali
In early 2005, a review of 2004 drill results at Mininko indicated a limited potential for this project. We withdrew from the joint venture in the first quarter of 2005 and wrote off all of the $1.1 million of costs incurred in the project.
EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN SOUTH AMERICA
Saramacca Property
The Saramacca project is located in Suriname and is owned 100% by Golden Star. Two successive soil auger sampling programs completed in 2003-04 evaluated a series of stream sediment gold anomalies and defined a 5 kilometer long soil anomaly forming a series of en-echelon zones. Deep augering in 2004 further confirmed the anomaly now termed `Anomaly M'.
Shallow diamond core drilling comprising 24 holes for a total of 1,315 meters commenced at Anomaly M in March 2005. This work was undertaken with a lightweight man-portable drill rig due to the rugged terrain, limiting hole depths to less than 100 meters. Mineralization intersected within drill cores consisted of variably sheared silicified pyritic metasediments of tuffaceous origin and volcanic conglomerates, often with little or no quartz veining. Significant gold assays were also intersected within the upper 5 to 10 meters of enriched lateritic duricrust and mottled saprolite. Based on the encouraging results from the 2005 work, we plan to follow up with a second phase of deeper core drilling and a program of mechanized trenching in an attempt to elucidate the structure of the host rocks beneath the duricrust capping. A budget of $1 million has been earmarked for this work in 2006, but we are also investigating joint venture possibilities for the property.
Bon Espoir Property
The Bon Espoir property is located in French Guiana and is owned 100% by Golden Star. It covers a sheared "belt-basin" volcanic-sediment contact zone analogous to those we are exploring in similar aged (lower Proterozoic) terrains in Ghana. During 2005, we conducted a regional soil sampling along much of the 40 kilometer long sediment-volcanic contact shear zone that hosts the Wayamaga prospect drilled by previous owners of the Bon Espoir permit. This soil sampling program was completed during July, with some 32.2 kilometers of baseline and 120 kilometers of cross lines cut, and soil sampling completed on 26 cross lines spaced 1600 meters apart on 100 meter centers. As expected, the assay results identified coherent zones of anomalous low grade zones of gold and arsenic along the main Wayamaga structural break; however the tenor of the anomalism was not strong enough to warrant immediate follow-up. It is planned to reduce the Bon Espoir permit area to cover the best of these anomalies while regional extensions of the Wayamaga structure are investigated.
Paul Isnard
The Paul Isnard project is located in the western part of French Guiana, some 200 km west of Cayenne. The project covers rocks of the Lower Proterozoic Paramacca Formation which contain gold mineralization in the form of pyritic disseminated zones or stringer zones and sulfide-rich shear zones, which can be reasonably correlated between the current widely spaced (200 meter) drill sections.
An inferred mineral resource of 8.2 million tonnes grading 1.78g/t has been identified at Montagne d'Or on the southern boundary of the Paul Isnard concession. Further work is warranted to identify additional sources of hard rock mineralization, which together with the mineral resource at Montagne d'Or could support a future mining operation. In 2005, we reviewed the historical work on the property and as a result in early 2006 reduced the area of the permit to 140 km(2) covering only the most prospective areas.
Benzdorp
The 72 km(2) Benzdorp South gold project is located along the eastern border of Suriname, approximately 220 km southeast of Paramaribo. The Benzdorp mining district is underlain by the Lower Proterozoic Paramacca greenstone and a felsic intrusive assemblage. Recorded and estimated alluvial gold production from historical dredging and present-day small-scale alluvial mining is in excess of 600,000 ounces. Exploration to date by Golden Star has identified several zones of bedrock mineralization but none of these are regarded as being economically viable at current gold prices. In early 2006 a third party was conducting due diligence on the property as a prelude to acquiring it from Golden Star.
Minera IRL
Minera IRL is a private, junior exploration company active in Peru and Chile in which we hold an approximate 19% interest through our shareholding in Goldmin Consolidated Holdings. Minera IRL has developed a portfolio of exploration projects, the most advanced of which, Corihuarmi in Peru, was drilled in 2003 with encouraging results. Corihuarmi, located 250 km east of Lima near Huancayo, consists of an extensive high sulfidation epithermal system with gold mineralization hosted in massive/vuggy silica and alunite zones. The focus of Minera IRL's exploration has been two massive siliceous outcrops known as Susan and Diana, which crop-out boldly above the surrounding softer argillically altered volcanic rocks. It is thought that the better-grade oxide gold mineralization at Susan and Diana is structurally controlled within silicified crackle breccia zones where they are cut by feeder structures. Several similar zones have been identified and additional drilling was completed in 2005 to expand the size of the current gold resource in readiness for a full feasibility study in 2006.
Other earlier-stage projects being investigated by Minera IRL include: 1) Frontera, located in northern Chile, 90 km northeast from the seaport of Arica, and just across the Peruvian border from Minsur's Checocollo project, which has been intensively drilled over the last 12 months, 2) Cushuro in the La Libertad district of northern Peru, and 3) the Chama prospect near Abancay. Minera IRL is actively assessing other properties throughout the Andean cordillera.
Other Areas
In addition to the project work discussed above we have undertaken several regional reconnaissance initiatives using both our own staff and contract geologists in Ghana, Cote d'Ivoire, Mauritania, Brazil, Argentina and Bolivia, spending approximately $0.9 million in 2005 for such activities. We have also held discussions with other companies to identify opportunities for joint venture exploration efforts in several areas, including the Guiana Shield.
ITEM 3.