ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
MAPS OF OPERATIONS AND PROPERTIES
The maps below show the locations of Bogoso, Prestea, Wassa, Pampe, the HBB Properties and Mampon in Ghana, and various exploration properties in other areas of West Africa. These properties are described in further detail below.
PROPERTY STATUS TABLE
The chart below summarizes information regarding our more significant properties, which are described in further detail below:
MINING IN GHANA
Ghanaian Ownership and Special Rights
Ghana is situated on the West Coast of Africa, approximately 600 kilometers north of the equator on the Gulf of Guinea. Accra, the capital city of Ghana, is located on the Prime Meridian. Following a period as a British colony, Ghana achieved independence in 1957 and it is now a republic with a democratically elected government. Ghana has a population of approximately 21 million people. English is the official and commercial language. The total land area of the country is
approximately 238,000 square kilometers and the topography is relatively flat. Ghana has a tropical climate with two rainy seasons and two dry seasons each year.
Rights to explore and develop a mine are administered by the Minister of Lands, Forests and Mines through the Minerals Commission, a governmental organization designed to promote and control the development of Ghana’s mineral wealth in accordance with the current mining law. A company or individual can apply to the Minerals Commission for a renewable exploration license granting exclusive rights to explore for a particular mineral in a selected area for an initial period not exceeding three years. When exploration has successfully delineated a mineable Mineral Reserve, an application may be made to the Minerals Commission for conversion to a mining lease, granting a company the right to produce a specific product from the concession area, normally for a period of 20 to 30 years. Production must typically begin within two years of the date of grant of a mining lease.
The new Minerals and Mining Act, 2006 (Act 703), which came into effect in March 2006 requires that any person who intends to acquire a controlling share of the equity of any mining company that has been granted a mining lease by the Government of Ghana must first give notice of its intent to the Government and obtain its consent prior to acquiring a controlling share.
In accordance with the current mining law, the Government of Ghana is granted a 10% carried interest in all companies such as Golden Star (Bogoso/Prestea) Limited (“GSBPL”) and Golden Star (Wassa) Limited (“GSWL”) that hold mining leases. The 10% carried interest entitles the Government of Ghana to a pro-rata share of future dividends (none have been declared to date), if any, from GSBPL and GSWL once all capital is repaid. The Government of Ghana has no obligation to contribute development or operating expenses. GSBPL and GSWL owe $277.7 million and $135.2 million, respectively, to Golden Star or its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 for past advances, and these amounts would be repaid to us before payment of any dividends. Under the old mining law the Government of Ghana was entitled to acquire up to an additional 20% interest in our operating companies at a mutually agreed price. Under the current mining law the Government of Ghana no longer has the right to acquire this additional 20% interest.
The Government of Ghana is also entitled to acquire a special or golden share in GSBPL or GSWL or any mining company at any time for no consideration or such consideration as the Government of Ghana and GSBPL or GSWL might agree. The special share would constitute a separate class of shares with such rights as the Government of Ghana and GSBPL or GSWL might agree. In the absence of such agreement, the special share would have the following rights:
•
the special share would carry no voting rights, but the holder would be entitled to receive notice of and attend and speak at any general meeting of the members or any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares;
•
the special share could only be issued to, held by, or transferred to the Government or a person acting on behalf of the Government;
•
the written consent of the holder of the special share would be required for all amendments to the organizational documents of the company, the voluntary winding-up or liquidation of the company or the disposal of any mining lease or the whole or any material part of the assets of the company;
•
the special share does not confer a right to participate in the dividends, profits or assets of the company or a return of assets in a winding up or liquidation of the company;
•
the holder of a special share may require the company to redeem the special share at any time for no consideration or for a consideration determined by the company.
GSBPL and GSWL have not issued nor to date been requested to issue a special share to the Government of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana has a pre-emptive right to purchase all gold and other minerals produced by GSBPL and GSWL. The purchase price would be agreed by the Government of Ghana and GSBPL and GSWL, or the price established by any gold hedging arrangement between GSBPL or GSWL and any third party approved by the Government, or the publicly quoted market price prevailing for the minerals or products as delivered at the mine or plant where the right of preemption was exercised. The Government of Ghana has agreed to take no preemptive action pursuant to its right to purchase gold or other minerals so long as GSWBL and GSWL sell gold in accordance with certain procedures approved by the Bank of Ghana.
Ghanaian Royalty Requirements
Under the mining law a holder of a mining lease is required to pay quarterly a royalty of not less than 3% and not more than 6% of gold revenues. The Government of Ghana determines the royalty percentage each year based on the ratio that the operating margin bears to the value of gold produced from a mining lease in that year. Based on the Mineral Royalty Regulation of 1987, the royalty is 3% when the operating ratio is 30% or less, the royalty increases 0.225% for each 1% increase in operating ratio until the royalty reaches a maximum of 6% at an operating ratio of 70%. In 2006, 2005 and 2004
the royalty rate for GSBPL was 3% of revenues and GSBPL paid $1.9 million, $1.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively. The royalty payments from GSBPL have not exceeded 3% per annum in any year. GSWL paid a 3% royalty of $1.5 million and $0.9 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Ghanaian Environmental Regulations
All environmental matters in Ghana, including those related to mining, fall under the oversight of the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). The EPA has formulated rules and guidelines which govern environmental impact statements, mine operations, and mine closure and reclamation, to which our operations are subject. Additional provisions governing surface uses by our stakeholders are provided in the Minerals and Mining Act (Act 703, 2006).
In 2005, pursuant to a reclamation bonding agreement between the EPA and GSWL, we bonded $3.0 million to cover future reclamation obligations at Wassa. To meet the bonding requirements we established a $2.85 million letter of credit and deposited $0.15 million of cash with the EPA. In addition, pursuant to a bonding agreement between the EPA and GSBPL, we bonded $9.5 million in early 2006 to cover our future obligations at Bogoso/Prestea. To meet these requirements, we deposited $0.9 million of cash with the EPA with the balance covered by a letter of credit.
We completed a review of the asset retirement obligations for Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa in 2006. Additional work has been completed at Bogoso/Prestea to rehabilitate disturbed lands and reduce long-term corporate liabilities including re-profiling waste dumps, capping hard rock with oxide materials, topsoil spreading and planting for both slope stabilization and long-term rehabilitation. Rehabilitation expenditures totaled $1.1 million, $0.8 million and $0.7 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively
To our knowledge, all our operations in Ghana are currently in substantial compliance with all environmental requirements.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS AND SUSTAINABILITY
We conduct our business as a responsible corporate citizen in keeping with our environmental, social and health and safety policies. We believe our ongoing success in Ghana can only be achieved by continuing to build good relations with our local stakeholder communities and by incorporating stakeholder comments and addressing their concerns in our developing projects. We believe our success as an employer, as a neighbor and as an important part of the local economy is dependent on achieving and maintaining good community relationships while helping to develop a more sustainable economy that is not solely dependent on our activities. As such, we are committed to sharing our success with our neighbors through our development foundation and our oil palm project.
Our work in 2006 focused on furthering the alternative livelihood projects that were providing the most benefit to the communities, and developing and implementing a strategy to provide our neighbors with more control over the infrastructure and development projects that we fund. On reviewing the alternative livelihood program, we found that poultry farming and small business development were successfully providing sustainable livelihoods to a large number of stakeholders. Of the 47 people that were trained to develop their own small businesses, 37 are still deriving their income from these businesses. This is a success rate of almost 80%. Key among the successes are a number of single mothers who are now able to support their families as a result of their commitment and our trainings and investment in their future. The aim of the economic development activities in 2007 will be to make the various participants independent and self-supporting. A measure of success in the poultry project was achieved when the cooperative was able to assist with program funding for new members from funds repaid to the cooperative by its members.
Although we invested in local infrastructure during the past several years, our efforts were driven by our own people with some input from the local communities. This resulted in projects that, although worthwhile, were not focused on key community needs. To address this, during 2006 we established the Golden Star Development Foundation to fund all future community projects. The Foundation is funded by us by contributions equal to $1 per ounce of gold produced plus 0.5% of pretax profit. Projects are selected by a community consultation committee. The first project approved for funding was the electrification of a village.
Community support of another kind came from the Golden Star head office in the form of a book drive. Initiated in 2005, our staff in Denver have worked with local high school student volunteers to collect, sort and pack books with the first shipment arriving in Ghana in 2006. By year end, our project had collected over 170,000 books that will be placed in libraries in our stakeholder communities. Librarians have been selected for some of these libraries and the process of getting the books onto the shelves has begun.
Another of our major economic diversity efforts is our Golden Star Oil Palm Project. This project builds on the existing abilities within the local community to diversify economic opportunities for individuals who would be unable to establish a palm oil plantation due to either limitations on land or funding. We established links with the local traditional authorities who then provided us with access to land. Using local labor, the land was prepared for planting and then oil palms planted. For the first three to four years, we will fund the development of the Project and pay the people preparing the land and caring for the seedlings. After this, the more mature palms begin to produce fruit and hence income. At this point, blocks of about four
hectares will be assigned to individuals or family groups who then care for the trees while receiving technical assistance and inputs from the project. When the fruit is harvested, the individual growers sell the fruit to the project and receive their money minus the input costs.
We first promoted the use of oil palms as a way to diversify the local economy as part of our alternative livelihood program. Funding was subsequently channeled into the Golden Star Oil Palm Project with the specific goal of managing the oil palm plantations as a sustainable business. To date, the areas planted with oil palms total 605 hectares and 275 hectares for the alternative livelihood program and Golden Star Oil Palm Project, respectively.
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Bogoso/Prestea Gold Mine
Overview of the Bogoso/Prestea Operation
Bogoso/Prestea consists of a gold mining and processing operation located along the Ashanti Trend in western Ghana, approximately 35 kilometers northwest of the town of Tarkwa. It can be reached by paved roads from Tarkwa, a local commercial center, and from Accra, the capital of Ghana. Bogoso and Prestea are adjoining mining concessions that together cover approximately 40 kilometers of strike of the southwest trending Ashanti gold district. Our mining areas at Bogoso and Prestea are linked to the Bogoso processing plants by paved and gravel haul-roads located on our properties. Equipment and facilities at Bogoso/Prestea include open pit mines, a nominal 1.5 million tonne per annum Bogoso CIL processing plant, a nominal 3.5 million tonne per annum Bogoso BIOX® processing plant, and a fleet of haul trucks, loaders and mining support equipment. In addition, there are numerous ancillary support facilities including power and water supply equipment, haul roads, housing for management and technical staff, a medical clinic, a tailings storage facility, waste dumps, a warehouse, maintenance shops, offices and administrative facilities. There is also a large inactive underground mine at Prestea. The Bogoso/Prestea properties and mining rights are granted under four mining leases, which expire on or after August 2017.
We acquired Bogoso in late 1999 and all of our production came from reserves located on the Bogoso property until October 2001 when we commenced surface mining on the adjoining Prestea property. The Prestea property was acquired in mid-2001.
Operating Results for Bogoso/Prestea
The following table displays historical operating results at Bogoso/Prestea.
(1)
Gold sale is shown on a 100% basis, which represents our current beneficial interest in gold production and revenues. Once all capital has been repaid, the Government of Ghana would receive 10% of the dividends from the subsidiaries owning the Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa mines.
In addition to the 2006 gold production shown above, 2,169 ounces of gold were recovered during testing and commissioning of the new Bogoso BIOX® plant crushing, grinding and CIL circuits.
Bogoso/Prestea Expansion Project
Gold ore reserves in general and specifically at Bogoso/Prestea can be segregated into two general ore types referred to as “refractory” and “non-refractory.” Refractory ores typically contain un-oxidized sulfide minerals with the gold trapped within the sulfide minerals. Such ores are also commonly referred to as “sulfide” ores and they cannot be economically processed in conventional CIL circuits such as our existing Bogoso CIL processing plant which we have operated since 1999.
Non-refractory ores typically do not contain sulfide minerals, or the sulfide minerals have been oxidized in situ by natural geologic processes. There are also certain sulfide ores that are considered non-refractory if the gold exists on the surface of the sulfide minerals rather than being embedded within the sulfide minerals. Ores that have been naturally oxidized are referred to as “oxide” ores. Non-refractory ores, including oxide ores, can be efficiently processed through the existing Bogoso CIL processing plant.
About 80% of the remaining ore reserves at Bogoso/Prestea are refractory and cannot be processed by the Bogoso CIL processing plant. Therefore in June 2005, a decision was made to construct the 3.5 million tonne per annum Bogoso BIOX® processing plant adjacent to the existing CIL processing plant. The new plant uses a proprietary BIOX® bio-oxidation technology to
treat the refractory sulfide ore. We expect to complete construction and commissioning of the Bogoso BIOX® processing plant in March 2007 with operations expected to commence in April 2007 and throughput and metallurgical recoveries increasing over the remainder of 2007. The new Bogoso BIOX® processing plant, together with the existing Bogoso CIL processing plant, are expected to be capable of processing a combined 5.0 million tonnes of gold ore per year.
The existing Bogoso CIL processing plant will retain its current configuration and will continue to process non-refractory ores while the new Bogoso BIOX® processing plant will process mostly refractory sulfide ores and mixed oxide-refractory ores. The two plants sitting side-by-side are expected to provide operational efficiencies since they will share management, labor, reagents, a warehouse and maintenance efforts. With the two plants and their differing technologies, we should be able to effectively process all of the ore types known to exist in the Bogoso/Prestea area.
Pre-stripping of two sulfide pits in readiness for the commissioning of the Bogoso BIOX® processing plant has stockpiled or exposed in the pits approximately 1.6 million tonnes of refractory ore as of December 31, 2006.
The Bogoso CIL processing plant has processed oxide and non-refractory ores from the Plant-North pit at Prestea since 2002, but mining of this deposit was completed in December 2006. The Bogoso CIL processing plant is now temporarily processing stockpiled ores and limited amounts of non-refractory ores encountered in the new sulfide pits until March 2007 when we plan to begin feeding the Bogoso CIL processing plant with oxide ores from the Pampe deposit. Later in 2007, we expect to initiate non-refractory ore mining on the south end of the Prestea property and this ore will be trucked to the Bogoso CIL processing plant. There are additional non-refractory deposits at various locations in the Bogoso area, including at the south end of the Prestea property and at Mampon. The known non-refractory ore deposits should be adequate to provide ore feed to the Bogoso CIL processing plant for the next 4 years.
Project costs to December 31, 2006 are as follows:
In 2007, we expect combined gold production from the two Bogoso plants to total approximately 280,000 ounces at an average cash operating cost of $380 per ounce. Based on test work, we expect gold recoveries from the Bogoso BIOX® processing plant to average 86% and vary between 78% and 88%. In the early stage of the project, when processing ore mined from close to the surface, recoveries will be at the lower end of the expected range.
Since August 2006, the Government of Ghana has rationed power to large industrial users, including Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa, due in part to the effects of low rainfall on hydroelectric power generation. Under the current rationing program, we expect to receive 90% of our power requirements, including requirements for the full operation of the Bogoso BIOX® processing plant. As a result of the power rationing, we together with three other mining companies, have agreed to acquire a nominal 100 megawatt power station, which is expected to be operational by mid 2007. Our 25% share of the power station, at an estimated cost to us of $10 million, should be sufficient to provide up to 50% of our total power requirements and, combined with our diesel generators and power available from the national grid, should provide power in excess of our requirements. If there is inadequate rainfall in 2007, we may be adversely affected by further rationing, which could increase our anticipated cash operating costs.
Geology at Bogoso/Prestea
The Bogoso/Prestea property lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield along a 40 kilometer stretch of the Ashanti Trend located immediately south of the town of Bogoso. The area is dominated by a major northeast-southwest trending structural fault zone referred to as the Ashanti Trend, which hosts the Prestea, Bogoso, Obuasi and Konongo gold deposits, among others. Parallel to the Ashanti Trend is the Akropong Trend, which hosts the Ayanfuri deposit. The Akropong Trend is about 15 kilometers west of the Ashanti Trend in the Bogoso region, and gradually converges with it at Obuasi forming the basis for the Obuasi mine, which is owned and operated by AngloGold Ashanti Limited.
Mineral Reserves and Non-Reserve Mineral Resources at Bogoso/Prestea
At December 31, 2006, Bogoso/Prestea had Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves, including the Probable Mineral Reserves at Mampon and at Pampe discussed below, of 41.6 million tonnes at a grade of 2.74 g/t containing approximately 3.67 million ounces of gold (before any reduction for the Government of Ghana’s 10% minority interest). Total Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources, including Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources at Mampon and Pampe discussed below, total 20.2 million tonnes with a grade of 2.23 g/t before a reduction for the 10% minority interest. Assuming no new reserves are discovered, the current Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves should support mining operations for approximately ten years, although we expect the mine life to be extended as we continue to evaluate mineral resources through ongoing
exploration efforts. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table and the Non-Reserves - Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource table in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Exploration at Bogoso/Prestea
Surface exploration was limited at Bogoso during 2006, following a major drilling program in 2005 undertaken to facilitate efficient mine planning for the sulfide deposits which will feed the Bogoso BIOX® processing plant for the next several years. We plan additional drilling in 2007 for design of final pit models for the Chujah-Dumasi and Buesichem deposits near Bogoso and to commence evaluation of possible longer term underground mining potential.
Surface exploration drilling on the Prestea property during 2006 was focused on expanding known near-surface potential on the south end of the Prestea property. We also evaluated shallow underground targets in the Plant-North pit vicinity where encouraging results were obtained from the Main Reef Footwall structure, a laminated quartz reef which lies 10 to 15 meters into the footwall of the Prestea Main Reef. Historical exploration of the Footwall Reef was limited and we believe this constitutes an opportunity for shallow, decline accessible underground mining. We plan further drilling of this target in 2007 to help determine if the deposit can be accessed from a decline driven from the bottom of the Plant-North pit.
To better define the geometry of deeper parts of the Ashanti Trend on our Bogoso/Prestea properties we plan to complete a deep penetration VTEM airborne geophysical survey during 2007. This survey is expected to help map flexures and dislocations in the Ashanti Trend structure that could provide a host for deeper, non-outcropping gold deposits similar to those exposed at the surface.
The Pampe Project
The Pampe deposit is located approximately 19 kilometers west of the Bogoso processing plant on the Akropong trend. Drilling during 2006 identified a Probable Mineral Reserve at December 31, 2006 of 2.1 million tonnes at an average gold grade of 3.31 g/t which is either oxide ore or non-refractory sulfide ore and which we believe is recoverable by open pit mining methods. Environmental permits were finalized in November 2006 and haul road construction is substantially complete. Ore mining and delivery of ore to the Bogoso CIL processing plant commenced in March 2007.
The Mampon Project
The Mampon deposit lies along the Ashanti Trend approximately 35 kilometers north of the Bogoso processing plants. It was acquired in 2003, as part of the Dunkwa property acquisition. An analysis of the drilling and other geologic data provided by the former owner as well as our own drilling since the acquisition date has established a Probable Mineral Reserve at December 31, 2006 of approximately 1.3 million tonnes grading 5.14 grams per tonne or approximately 215,000 ounces of gold which is accessible by open pit mining methods. The geology of the Mampon deposit is similar to the geology at Bogoso/Prestea. Our current plan is to haul the Mampon ore by truck to the Bogoso processing plant to supplement ores from the Bogoso/Prestea deposits. Based on our current long-term mining plan we expect to initiate mining at Mampon in 2008. Mampon ore is approximately 75% refractory and 25% non-refractory. Exploration during 2007 will target the deeper, potentially underground exploitable extensions of the Mampon deposit and drilling to convert resources at the nearby Aboronye deposit to indicated status.
Prestea South (formerly referred to as Bondaye/Tuapim Area)
Due to the presence of illegal miners during much of 2006 only limited drilling was carried out on the south end of the Prestea property. However, in November 2006, the Ghanaian authorities were able to halt illegal mining on our properties and we have since completed a drilling campaign in these areas. This work confirmed the previously defined inferred resources. This oxide material, if proven economic, would be trucked to the Bogoso CIL plant beginning in late 2007. We also expect to commence initial investigation of the shallow and ultimately the deeper underground potential of this area which is outside of the immediate Tuampim and Bondaye shaft areas.
The Wassa Gold Mine
Overview of the Wassa Gold Mine
The Wassa gold mine, located approximately 35 kilometers east of Bogoso/Prestea, was initially developed in the late 1990s by a consortium of European mining companies and consisted of an open pit mine, a crusher and a conventional heap leach operation. While operating as a heap leach property, Wassa produced approximately 90,000 ounces of gold per year from 1999 until mid-2001 when mining operations were suspended.
In September 2002, GSWL, our 90% owned subsidiary, acquired the inactive Wassa gold property. As with GSBPL, the Government of Ghana holds a 10% carried interest which entitles it to 10% of any future dividends (none have been declared
to date). Dividend payments will not be made until GSWL has repaid all contributed capital and shareholder advances to Golden Star.
In late 2003, following completion of a feasibility study, we initiated construction of a nominal 4.0 million tonnes per year Wassa CIL processing plant. The construction phase ended in early 2005, and the Wassa open-pit mine and plant was placed in service on April 1, 2005. In the nine months ended December 31, 2005, Wassa processed 2.7 million tonnes of ore at an average grade of 0.91 grams per tonne and sold 69,070 ounces of gold at an average total cash cost per ounce of $482. Plant feed was a mixture of newly mined ore from the Wassa pit blended with material from the heap leach pads left by the prior owners.
During 2006, a total of 97,614 ounces of gold was sold at Wassa at an average cash operating cost of approximately $474 per ounce. In 2007, we expect gold sales of approximately 110,000 ounces at an average cash operating cost of approximately $410 per ounce. The Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves at Wassa at the end of 2006 should be sufficient to support operations to mid-2010. If the feasibility study for the HBB Properties indicates it is economical to haul ore from these properties to the Wassa CIL processing plant, the project life of the combined operation could be extended.
Geology at Wassa
Wassa lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield. The Proterozoic rocks that comprise most of the West African craton and host the major gold mineralization in Ghana are subdivided into metasedimentary and volcanic rocks of the Birimian and Tarkwaian sequences.
Wassa is hosted within the same Birimian volcano-sedimentary greenstone package as Bogoso/Prestea. However, Wassa is situated on the southeastern flank of the Ashanti Belt while Bogoso and Prestea occur along the northwestern flank. The northwestern flank of the belt hosts the Obuasi, Prestea, and Bogoso gold mines, but the southeastern flank also is characterized by gold mines and mineral occurrences. Tarkwaian-hosted deposits along the southeastern limb include Goldfield’s Tarkwa and Abosso mines, while Birimian-hosted gold occurrences include the 7.6 million ounce Akyem deposit owned by Newmont Mining, the deposits on our HBB Properties and Wassa.
Operating Results for Wassa
The following table displays historical operating results at Wassa.
Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources at Wassa
As at December 31, 2006, Wassa has Proven and Probable Mineral Reserve of 13.6 million tonnes with an average grade of 1.11 g/t containing approximately 0.48 million ounces of gold before any reduction for the Government of Ghana’s 10% minority interest. The total Measured and Indicated Mineral Resources consist of 11.9 million tonnes with a grade of approximately 0.76 g/t before any reduction for the 10% minority interest. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table and the Non-Reserves - Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource table in Item 1 of this 10-K.
Exploration at Wassa
Exploration activities at Wassa during 2006 focused on target generation activities, particularly at the Bawdia Boso, Area Two and along the Tarkwaian - Birimian contact on our Accra Newtown concession. Soil and auger sampling at these locations has generated numerous high quality targets that we plan to drill test during 2007, with the ultimate aim of providing additional mill feed for Wassa and thereby extending the mine life. Wassa-based exploration also covers the Chichiwelli property acquired as part of the Benso property package where work during 2006 has generated extensive soil gold anomalies associated with old galamsey (artisanal) workings. We expect that this area will also be drilled in 2007.
EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN GHANA
Prestea Underground
Overview
The Prestea Underground is an inactive underground gold mine located to the south of Bogoso/Prestea and adjacent to the town of Prestea. The property consists of two access shafts and extensive underground workings and support facilities. Support facilities include an administrative office, maintenance shops, a warehouse and electrical substations. Access to the mine site is via a paved road from Tarkwa and Accra maintained by the Government of Ghana. Any potential future production from the Prestea Underground would be trucked to the Bogoso plants for processing.
From the 1870s to 2002 when mining ceased following an extended period of low gold prices, the Prestea Underground operations produced approximately nine million ounces of gold, the second highest production of any mine in Ghana. The underground workings are extensive, reaching depths of approximately 1,400 meters and extending along a strike length of approximately nine kilometers. Underground workings can currently be accessed via two surface shafts, one near the town of Prestea and a second approximately four kilometers to the southwest at Bondaye.
GSBPL now holds a 90% ownership in the Prestea Underground with the Government of Ghana holding a 10% ownership in Prestea Underground as well as its 10% holding in GSBPL, resulting in an 81% beneficial ownership by Golden Star. Underground drilling continued until late in 2006 when illegal mining in the vicinity of the Bondaye shaft caused damage to the shaft resulting in its closure. This in turn resulted in the suspension of all underground activities at Prestea as Bondaye was the alternate egress for all of the underground workings. We expect that the suspension will remain in place until major refurbishment work is completed on both Bondaye and Central Shafts.
Geology of Prestea Underground
The Prestea deposits are found along the Ashanti Trend which extends over 220 kilometers and which accounts for 80% to 90% of the total quartz lode-hosted gold extracted in Ghana. Other mines located along the same shear are our Bogoso pits and the Obuasi and Konongo mines owned by others.
Two types of gold hosts have historically been recognized at Prestea: fault-related hydrothermal quartz veins; and disseminated sulfide-hosted gold mineralization associated with metavolcanic pods. The first type of ore was the focus of intense mining during Prestea’s past production. We intend to evaluate both types of mineralization.
Mineral Resources at Prestea Underground
As of December 31, 2006 we have identified total Indicated Mineral Resources at the Prestea Underground of 1.1 million tonnes at an average grade of 16.3 g/t before any reduction for the 19% minority interest.
Exploration Activities at Prestea Underground
A total of 18,483 meters of underground exploration drilling was completed at the Prestea Underground during 2006. The drilling focused on testing extensions of the high grade West Reef shoot between levels 17 and 24 (a depth of between 700 and 900 meters) and the commencement of drilling of unmined down-plunge extensions of the Main Reef below 30 Level.
Drilling on the West Reef between 17 and 24 Levels resulted in an Indicated Resource of 0.86 million tonnes at an average grade of 18.3 grams per tonne in a roughly 300 by 300 meter block. Although this deposit appears to be narrowing at depth, further drilling is required to test down-plunge repetitions within the West Reef structure.
Initial drilling below 30 Level returned encouraging results from the Main Reef structure, confirming its down-plunge continuity. Once shaft repairs allow renewed access to the underground workings, this area will constitute one of our major exploration targets. Total exploration costs at the Prestea Underground were $2.3 million during 2006. We expect to complete a feasibility study for the development and mining of the Prestea Underground in late 2007.
We continue to believe these deeper levels provide the best opportunities for significant new discoveries at Prestea Underground. However, the major refurbishment work required for both the Bondaye and Central Shafts is unlikely to be completed before the end of 2007 and consequently we expect exploration during 2007 to focus on shallower sections of the reefs that can be drilled from the surface.
HBB Properties
The Hwini-Butre and Benso prospecting licenses were acquired in late December 2005. These lie at the southeastern end of the Ashanti trend in Ghana. While we currently hold a 100% interest in these properties (through our subsidiaries), the Government of Ghana would become entitled to a 10% carried interest at the time mining permits are granted.
The Hwini-Butre property is located approximately 75 kilometers south of Wassa and occupies an area of approximately 180 square kilometers. The prior owner and its predecessors previously carried out numerous exploration programs on the property and identified two significant zones of gold mineralization.
The Benso property is located directly north of the Hwini-Butre property and about 45 kilometers south of Wassa. The property covers an area of approximately 21 square kilometers, and consists of three properties: the Amantin, Subriso, and Chichiwelli. The prior owner and its predecessors previously conducted a geochemical soil sampling survey over the entire Benso property and drill programs on the three blocks.
We commenced our own exploration activities on the HBB Properties in early 2006, and have spent approximately $4.5 million for the program to year end.
The HBB Properties lie along the southeastern flank of the Birimian-aged (lower Proterozoic) Ashanti Belt, along the same structural trend as Wassa. The southwestern part of the Hwini-Butre property covers the Mpohor Complex, a syn-volcanic mafic intrusive that is bound to the east and north by the Butre volcanic sequence. The Mpohor Complex is a polyphase intrusion with compositions ranging from gabbroic to granophyric, with intermediate phases such as diorite and granodiorite. The Butre volcanic sequence, which also underlies the Benso property further north, mostly comprises volcanic flows with minor metasediment horizons. The main regional structural orientation trends northeasterly but extensive north to northwest trending cross-cutting fracture systems are also well developed. The latter host much of the mineralization in the district, with vein systems at Dabokrom, Father Brown, Adoikrom, the Subriso zones and Amantin located within or marginal to the Mpohor Complex. Mineralization on the Hwini-Butre property is typically associated with shallowly east-dipping narrow quartz veins and their associated sericitic alteration halos, with coarse free gold associated with sulfides and as specks within the quartz veins and altered host rocks. In contrast, mineralization at Subriso West and Central Subriso forms a series of relatively steep dipping, north-trending zones characterized by strong shearing and pervasive silica replacement with local silica flooding and only minor thin quartz veining.
Exploration activities on the Hwini-Butre property during 2006 concentrated on the Father Brown, Adoikrom and Dabokrom prospects in the southern portion of the property. The objectives of these programs were to test the strike extensions of the known zones of mineralization and to test the higher grade Father Brown zone down-dip to determine whether it has potential for underground exploitation. The programs were successful in delineating an extension of the Adiokrom zone to the south and the down-dip extension of the Father Brown zone.
In 2007, we plan to continue drilling to investigate additional targets at Father Brown, Adiokrom and Dabokrom. However, the main focus of future programs will be to test the northern portion of the concession where several colonial gold occurrences (Breminsu, Apotunso, Abada, Whinnie and Guadium) are located. Previous soil sampling in these areas has identified several anomalies which require deep auger followed by RAB drilling if justified.
Exploration on the Benso property during 2006 focused on testing the full potential of the property with extensive soil and deep auger surveys covering the entire property on a 200 by 50 meter spacing. Anomalies generated by the soil sampling campaigns were tested with RAB drilling which identified several new zones of mineralization which we plan to follow up with RC and diamond core drilling in 2007.
At Amantin soil augering late in 2006 delineated several anomalies which we plan to follow-up in 2007 including deep auger sampling on a 200 by 50 meter grid followed by RAB, RC and diamond drilling if warranted.
We expect to spend about $1.5 million on exploration activities as the Benso property in 2007, with a further $2.4 million at the Hwini-Butre property. We expect to complete and publish a feasibility study in the second quarter of 2007 for the development and mining of the HBB Properties. As of December 31, 2006 we have identified Indicated Mineral Resources of 5.2 million tonnes at an average gold grade of 4.30 g/t at the HBB Properties.
Akropong Trend Properties
Work continued on a reduced scale during 2006 on the Akropong Trend properties located approximately 10 to 20 kilometers to the west of Bogoso/Prestea. The objective of our efforts in this area is to identify additional Mineral Reserve opportunities in the immediate vicinity of Bogoso/Prestea that could, in the future, provide additional sources of ore for the Bogoso processing plants. Apart from the Pampe deposit, where ore mining commenced in March 2007, the other Akropong Trend projects are at an early stage of exploration. To date they do not have, and ultimately might not have, Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves.
Dunkwa Properties
In 2003, we purchased two prospecting licenses, Asikuma and Mansiso, along the Ashanti Trend which we refer to as the Dunkwa properties. These properties cover 45 kilometers of strike along the Ashanti Trend directly north of and contiguous with the current Bogoso property. They are accessible by Ghanaian public roads. The addition of the Asikuma and Mansiso
prospecting licenses, which cover 56 and 69 square kilometers, respectively, increases our property holdings along the trend to over 100 kilometers in length.
There are five known gold prospects on the Dunkwa concession including Mampon. All of these occur in the same approximate stratigraphic position within lower Birimian sediments from 1 to 1.5 kilometers west of the contact with the Birimian metavolcanics. These prospects are also associated with shearing and/or graphitic faults, similar to those seen at Bogoso and consist of narrow quartz veins with strong pyrite and arsenopyrite mineralization in the wall rocks ranging up to 15% total sulfides.
One of the main targets along this trend is an unexplored nine kilometer section of the Ashanti trend covered by Opon river valley sediments which coincides with a conductivity anomaly. Attempts to drill this target commencing in early 2006 met with unexpected delays due to farmer’s objections; however these problems now appear to have been resolved and drilling is expected to continue in 2007. Spending in the Dunkwa area totaled $0.2 million in 2006.
Regional Activities in Ghana
In 2005, we commenced exploration on several early stage regional projects in southern Ghana covering extensive areas to the east and south of the Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa areas (see map at the beginning of Item 2 Description of Properties.) The initial wide-spaced geochemical surveys identified promising gold and multi-element anomalies which were followed up and further refined by additional sampling in 2006. Work in 2007 is expected to involve initial auger and shallow drilling of the better anomalies leading to deeper drilling if warranted.
We are exploring several other early stage properties in Ghana with 2007 programs planned to involve broad-spaced reconnaissance sampling.
OTHER EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN AFRICA
Mano River Joint Venture, Sierra Leone
In late 2003 we entered into a joint venture agreement with Mano River Resources Inc., which holds seven gold properties in Sierra Leone totaling approximately 550 square kilometers. A diamond core drilling program commenced in mid-March 2004 at the Yirisen prospect on the North Pampana license, and 26 holes were completed. Grades and gold mineralization proved to be variable and discontinuous. However, due to the prospective nature of the local area, as evidenced by numerous artisanal workings and favorable geology, a reconnaissance soil sampling program was initiated over all the joint venture properties in late 2004 which continued into 2005.
Exploration during 2006 involved extensive programs of prospecting and in-fill soil sampling to confirm and refine the initial anomalies. This work has both confirmed the original anomalies and identified several new areas of anomalism associated with artisanal workings. In late 2006 diamond drilling had recommenced on the Yirisen trend at Pampana and a RAB drill has been mobilized from Ghana to commence exploration beneath the thick laterite cover on the Sonfon trend.
Expenditures on the Mano River joint venture in 2006 totaled $0.9 with expenditures of $1.6 million planned for 2007.
Afema, Cote d’Ivoire
In March 2005, we entered into an option to purchase the Afema project in Côte d’Ivoire from the Ivorian parastatal company Société d’Etat pour le Développement Minier de la Côte d’Ivoire (‘SO.DE.MI.”). The Afema property covers an area of 2,012 square kilometers of prospective Birimian rocks in south east Côte d’Ivoire which represent the southeastern extension of the Sefwi Belt meta-volcanics and the Kumasi Basin meta-sedimentary rocks. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, we were entitled to carry out a six month detailed technical due diligence, after which we had the right to acquire 100% of the property.
We undertook an intensive exploration program at Afema during the six months following signing of the option, including the collection and analysis of over 12,000 soil samples and compilation and assessment of previous exploration data. Despite this work, we were unable to come to a definitive decision on the merits of the project and hence a six month extension to the option period was requested, which SO.DE.MI. granted. The extension was used to continue the assessment of previous data and to complete infill sampling and trenching of some of the better anomalies defined by the initial program, as well as a base-line environmental study.
Goulagou, Burkina Faso
We hold an 80% beneficial interest in the Goulagou and adjoining Rounga gold properties, which were acquired along with the HBB Properties in late 2005. Together the two contiguous properties cover approximately 487 square kilometers and are located approximately 100 kilometers west of Ouagadougou, the capital city of Burkina Faso, and 20 kilometers north of the
city of Ouahigouya. Drilling programs carried out by the prior owner and their predecessors identified several areas of gold enrichment including two parallel gold mineralized zones on the Goulagou property - the Goulagou I and II deposits.
Work during 2006 has involved the collation and auditing of exploration data from all previous operators and its compilation into a coherent digital data base which is being used to review the effectiveness of past exploration and identify targets for ongoing work in 2007.
Deba and Tialkam Projects, Niger
The Deba and Tialkam properties are gold exploration properties in Niger which were acquired along with the HBB Properties in late 2005. We hold a 100% interest in the two exploration permits, subject to the 10% interest of the Government of Niger. Based on data obtained from exploration carried out by previous owners and the presence of artisanal workings, the prior owner initiated an RC drilling program in late 2005, which we continued in early 2006. The results of this drilling were largely inconclusive.
Our work during 2006 has involved the collation and auditing of exploration data from all previous operators and its compilation into a coherent digital database. This is being used to review the effectiveness of past exploration and identify targets for ongoing work in 2007.
EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN SOUTH AMERICA
Saramacca Property
The Saramacca project is located in Suriname and is owned 100% by Golden Star. Two successive soil auger sampling programs completed in 2003 and 2004 evaluated a series of stream sediment gold anomalies and defined a five kilometer long soil anomaly forming a series of en-echelon zones. Deep augering in 2004 further confirmed the anomaly now termed ‘Anomaly M’.
Shallow diamond core drilling comprising 24 holes for a total of 1,315 meters commenced at Anomaly M in March 2005. This work was undertaken with a lightweight man-portable drill rig due to the rugged terrain, limiting hole depths to less than 100 meters. Mineralization intersected within drill cores consisted of variably sheared silicified pyritic metasediments of tuffaceous origin and volcanic conglomerates, often with little or no quartz veining. Significant gold assays were also intersected within the upper five to ten meters of enriched lateritic duricrust and mottled saprolite.
Based on the encouraging results from the 2005 work, we planned to follow up with a second phase of deeper core drilling and a program of mechanized trenching in an attempt to elucidate the structure of the host rocks beneath the duricrust capping. Since exploration in this logistically difficult and high-cost environment is likely to require a major commitment of funds, in August 2006 we entered into a joint venture agreement with a subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”) to jointly explore this 1,546 square kilometer property.
Under the terms of the agreement, Newmont can earn a 51% participating interest in the Saramacca project by spending $6 million over the first five years of the joint venture. Thereafter, Newmont may elect to earn a further 19% interest by completing a feasibility study, provided that:
i)
It does so within two years of earning 51%, and
ii)
Golden Star does not exercise its one-time option to elect to contribute to maintain its 49% equity interest.
Standard dilution clauses apply if one or the other party does not contribute subsequent to Newmont acquiring a 51% interest. Further, if either party’s interest is reduced to below 20% by dilution, that party will be automatically assigned a 1.25% Net Smelter Royalty interest in the venture.
Upon Newmont completing a feasibility study, Golden Star may i.) elect to participate relative to its joint venture interest at that time; ii.) dilute its interest; or iii.) be assigned an automatic 1.25% Net Smelter Royalty interest in the venture. Additionally, if Golden Star elects to maintain its interest, it may elect to have Newmont carry all Golden Star’s share of mine development costs. If this option is selected, Golden Star would repay Newmont from 80% of its share of eventual mine earnings plus interest at LIBOR plus 2.75%. In addition, Golden Star will receive an advance royalty of $5.00 per ounce of gold reported on the date that Newmont approves development of a mine.
We retain management of the project for the initial two years or expenditure of $2 million funded by Newmont, whichever comes first. Joint operation began in late 2006 with an initial budget of $1.1 million for the first twelve month period through to August 2007. The primary goal is to extend and infill Anomaly M along strike to the southwest where it remains open-ended and approximately 2,000 meters of diamond core drilling is planned for this. The secondary goal of the program is to do regional reconnaissance to identify and sample artisanal mining sites in the area and to compile and reprocess existing data from previously flown regional aeromagnetics to provide a more refined picture of the geology and structure of the Saramacca district.
Bon Espoir Property
The Bon Espoir property is located in French Guiana and is owned 100% by Golden Star. It covers a sheared “belt-basin” volcanic-sediment contact zone analogous to those we are exploring in similar aged (lower Proterozoic) terrains in Ghana. During 2005, we conducted a regional soil sampling along much of the 40 kilometer long sediment-volcanic contact shear zone that hosts the Wayamaga prospect drilled by previous owners of the Bon Espoir permit. Assay results identified coherent zones of anomalous low grade zones of gold and arsenic along the main Wayamaga structural break; however the tenor of the anomalism was not strong enough to warrant immediate follow-up. We have filed an application to renew the permit with a reduced area covering the best of these anomalies.
Paul Isnard
The Paul Isnard project is located in the western part of French Guiana, some 200 km west of Cayenne. The project covers rocks of the Lower Proterozoic Paramacca Formation which contain gold mineralization in the form of pyritic disseminated zones or stringer zones and sulfide-rich shear zones, which can be reasonably correlated between the current widely spaced (200 meter) drill sections.
In early 2004, we retained independent consultants RSG Global to provide a NI43-101 compliant resource estimate for the Montagne d’Or deposit on the southern boundary of the Paul Isnard concession, and to run pit optimization studies using a range of gold prices and mining costs prevailing at that time.
In late 2006 RSG Global (now Coffey International) re-ran the pit optimizations using revised 2006 mining costs and gold prices. Using a gold price of $560 per ounce, the Montagne d’Or deposit was estimated to contain a NI43-101 compliant Inferred in-pit mineral resource of 10.2 million tonnes grading 1.7 g/t. Further work may be warranted to identify additional sources of hard rock mineralization, which together with the mineral resource at Montagne d’Or, could support a future mining operation.
Exploration rights to Guyanor’s Paul Isnard property are optioned to Golden Star in an earn-in agreement that provides Golden Star the right to acquire up to 100% of the 433 square kilometer property via a series of option payments and exploration spending.
Benzdorp
The four properties comprising the 72 km 2 Benzdorp South gold project are located along the eastern border of Suriname, approximately 220 km southeast of Paramaribo. The Benzdorp mining district is underlain by greenstones of the Lower Proterozoic Paramacca Formation and a felsic intrusive assemblage. Recorded and estimated alluvial gold production from historical dredging and present-day small-scale alluvial mining is in excess of 600,000 ounces. Our work during the mid 1990’s failed to identify economically viable mineralization. Consequently, in early 2006 our underlying option rights over the Antino 1 property were farmed out to Reunion Gold Corporation in return for a minimum $5 million expenditure plus periodic property payments over five years and a 0.75% net smelter return to Golden Star.
Minera IRL
Minera IRL is a private, junior exploration company active in Peru, Argentina and Chile. We currently hold approximately 14% of their common shares. Minera IRL has informed us that it intends to developed a portfolio of exploration projects, the most advanced of which, Corihuarmi, located approximately 160km south east of Lima near Huancayo, is the most advanced. Corihuarmi, a high sulfidation vuggy-silica style epithermal deposit, was drilled over the period 2003 to 2005 with encouraging results leading to completion of a feasibility study in 2006
Development of the Corihuarmi Gold Mine as a low cost open-pit, heap leach operation based on NI43-101 compliant reserves at 3.4 million tonnes grading 1.1 grams of gold per tonne is expected to commence in 2007.
Other projects controlled by Minera IRL include the Jagüelito silver-gold project in Argentina which is in its pre-feasibility study stage and the Ollachea gold project in Peru. Jagüelito has over 100 holes (23,954m) of drilling already completed by previous owners and offers the potential for fast-tracking to production. Ollachea, which is being acquired from Rio Tinto represents an advanced gold project in what appears to be an emerging slate belt district.
Other earlier-stage projects being investigated by Minera IRL include Frontera (in joint venture with Teck Cominco), located in northern Chile, 90 km northeast from the seaport of Arica, and just across the Peruvian border from Minsur’s Checocollo project; Cushuro in the La Libertad district of northern Peru; and the Chama prospect near Abancay in central Peru.
Minera IRL intends to list on the London AIM exchange in 2007.
Other Areas
In addition to the project work discussed above we have undertaken several regional reconnaissance initiatives using both our own staff and contract geologists in various West African and South American countries, spending approximately $0.9 million in 2006 for such activities.
ITEM 3.