ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES - ------- -------------------------
Introduction
As of March 1, 2000, the Company owned, or had entered into agreements to acquire, direct and indirect, interests in mineral properties located in the following countries: Guyana, France (French Guiana), Suriname, and Brazil in South America as well as Ghana, Kenya and the Ivory Coast in Africa.
As a result of our change of corporate strategy in 1999 and the acquisition of the Bogoso mine in Ghana, and with the continuing weak gold prices, the Company has decided to close its offices in Ivory Coast and Kenya and to relinquish its rights on the Abacaxis and Andorinhas projects in Brazil, the Tortiya and Koutoukounou projects in Ivory Coast and all of its projects in Bolivia. In addition, the Company has decided to close its permanent office in Guyana although it will maintain a presence in the country. The Company's other early stage projects continue to be on care and maintenance. The locations of the Company's most significant projects are indicated in Figures 1 and 2 above.
The Company's projects are situated in geologic domains known as greenstone belts, which are ancient volcanic-sedimentary rock assemblages. Greenstone belts are known to be favorable geologic environments for gold mineralization and account for a significant proportion of the world's gold production, (e.g., the greenstone belts of the Canadian Shield in Eastern Canada, the Pilbara and Yilgarn Blocks of Western Australia, the greenstone belts of East and West Africa and the Guiana and Brazilian Shields of South America). In addition, as a result of the Company's expertise in the Guiana Shield, a regional exploration program was also conducted to search for possible primary diamond sources. The diamond exploration program has led to the identification of diamond targets in French Guiana, Suriname and Guyana. In light of the need to reduce exploration expenditures, the Company's diamond exploration efforts are currently focused in French Guiana.
Gold exploration and mining have, in the past, been conducted within most of the areas where the Company's properties are located. However, with a few exceptions, including in particular the Bogoso gold mine in Ghana, the areas have yielded comparatively few large-scale mining operations, due largely to a difficult physical environment, poor infrastructure, and until recently, adverse political and business conditions. Although there are, or have been, numerous artisanal mining operations scattered throughout the areas where the Company's properties are located, with very few exceptions, these areas had not until recently been fully explored and mined with modern techniques and equipment.
All of the Company's mineral properties are located in developing countries, with the exception of France (French Guiana). There are certain business and political risks inherent in doing business in developing countries. In particular, the regulatory framework for conducting mining and exploration activities in these countries, including the tax and general fiscal regimes and the manner in which rights and title to mineral properties are established and maintained, are often uncertain, incomplete, in a state of flux or subject to change without notice. Further, in many of the countries in which the Company's projects are located, it may not be economically feasible to develop a commercial mine unless special tax or other fiscal and regulatory concessions are obtained from the applicable governmental and regulatory authorities. Such concessions are typically sought in a mineral agreement (also known as foreign investment agreements and establishment agreements). A mineral agreement thus serves to establish the legal and financial framework pursuant to which mining will take place in countries where such framework might be otherwise unclear, uncertain or not commercially viable. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to execute or enforce satisfactory mineral agreements or obtain satisfactory political risk insurance on commercially reasonable terms for any or all of its properties. Consequently, the Company may have to abandon or relinquish otherwise valuable mineral rights if it determines that it will not be able to profitably exploit any discovery under existing laws and regulations.
Total consolidated expenditures and property abandonment costs for the Company's exploration projects for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999 under Canadian GAAP were as follows:
(1) A division of the Company. (2) Approximately 71% owned by the Company. (3) A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. (4) A 70% owned subsidiary of the Company. (5) Our holdings include ownership interests, royalty interests, leases, options and joint venture interests in varying percentages.
THE BOGOSO GOLD MINE
Bogoso Gold Limited ("BGL") is the owner of an operating gold mine and related assets (the "Bogoso Property") located on the Ashanti Trend in the Republic of Ghana. Golden Star controls 70% of the common shares of BGL and Anvil Mining NL, a public exploration and development company whose shares are listed on the Australian Stock Exchange ("Anvil"), controls another 20%. The Government of Ghana controls the remaining 10%. The Government of Ghana is entitled at all times to hold a 10% carried interest in all the rights and obligations of BGL. The Government acquired this interest for no consideration and is not required to contribute any funds to pay any BGL expenses.
Ghana is situated on the West Coast of Africa, approximately 750 kilometers north of the equator on the Gulf of Guinea, and Accra, the capital city of Ghana, is located on the Greenwich Meridian. After a period as a British colony, Ghana achieved independence in 1957 and it is now a republic with a democratically elected government. Ghana has a population of approximately 18 million people, with English being the official and commercial language. The total land area of the country is approximately 238,000 km2 and the topography is relatively flat. Ghana has a tropical climate with two rainy seasons and two dry seasons.
The Bogoso Property comprises an operating gold mine on two mining leases, covering an aggregate area of 95 square kilometers. BGL owns the Bogoso Property, mines ore from several open pits and processes the ore at a processing plant that it built on the property in 1991. The plant uses conventional carbon-in-leach (CIL) technology to extract gold from the ore and has been producing approximately 100,000 to 110,000 ounces of gold per year since it was built.
The Bogoso Property is located in western Ghana approximately 35 kilometers northwest of the town of Tarkwa from where it can be reached by accessible roads. A paved road runs down most of the 18.5 kilometers length of the property and connects the town of Bogoso in the northeast with the town of Prestea in the southwest. Another paved road provides access to a sealed airstrip located at the town of Obuasi, some 115 km to the north. The mining areas are connected by gravel haul-roads to the treatment plant.
The Government of Ghana issued a gold prospecting license to BGL on November 7, 1986, granting BGL the right to prospect for gold in a prospecting area of approximately 148 square kilometers for a three-year term commencing on May 12, 1986. On August 21, 1987, the Government of Ghana granted BGL a 30-year mining lease giving BGL the exclusive right to work, develop and produce gold in a mining area of 50 square kilometers within this prospecting area. On August 16, 1988, the Government of Ghana granted BGL a second 30-year gold mining lease covering an additional 45 square kilometers area adjacent to the first mining area. Under the above mining leases (the "Mining Leases"), BGL now holds gold mining rights in a mining area totaling 95 square kilometers, subject to the payment of nominal annual rents.
The Acquisition
The acquisition by Golden Star and Anvil of 70% and 20%, respectively, of the shares of BGL was completed on September 30, 1999 pursuant to a purchase agreement among the Company, Anvil and a consortium of banks led by the International Finance Corporation ("IFC") and Deutsche Investitions und Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH of Germany ("DEG"). The transaction also included the acquisition by way of assignment to Golden Star and Anvil of 78% and 22%, respectively, of the existing indebtedness of BGL (the "BGL Debt"), which represented at closing approximately $34 million now owed by BGL to Golden Star and Anvil. The Government of Ghana is entitled to receive approximately $460,000 of the shareholder advances to be repaid by BGL following the repayment of the principal and interest accrued thereon remaining owed under the BGL Debt. The principal and interest accrued under the BGL Debt and the outstanding shareholder advances will have to be repaid to Golden Star and Anvil in proportion to their respective interests before any dividend is declared to the shareholders of BGL. BGL has no external debt other than that acquired by and owed to Golden Star and Anvil.
The Company and Anvil will be required to make additional future payments to the consortium of banks, depending on the then current price of gold and the potential acquisition of ore in Ghana outside of the region of BGL's mining interests. These additional payments are capped at $10 million in total. The gold price related payments are due as
to 50% one year after closing and 50% at the earlier of production of gold ceasing or the second anniversary after closing. The Company is obligated to escrow the estimated payments six months and 18 months after closing, respectively. These payments are equal to the product (in U.S. dollars) of 183,333 and the amount, if any, that the average daily gold price (in U.S. dollars in the London Bullion Market Association p.m. gold fix) over the period from closing to the payment dates exceeds $255 per ounce. The Company has accrued $6.4 million in additional purchase price in the fourth quarter, based on its estimate that the gold price will average $290 per ounce for the remainder of the Bogoso mine life. The payment made on the first anniversary of the acquisition will be non-refundable and will be credited against any payment due on the second anniversary. The Company is depleting this amount on a units- of-production basis over production from proven and probable reserves.
The resource acquisition linked payment will be triggered if minable reserves equivalent to 50,000 ounces of gold are acquired elsewhere in Ghana for processing at the Bogoso mill. In this case, Golden Star and Anvil will make an additional payment to the consortium of banks on the second anniversary of closing of $2.0 million, irrespective of the gold price, but subject to the $10 million cap.
The Company is also required to make production related payments to the provider of the credit facility arranged for, but not used to effect, the acquisition of BGL. The Company is required to pay $0.25 million for every 12- month period that BGL produces over 75,000 ounces of gold. Based on proven and probable reserves, the Company has accrued $0.5 million (for two years' production) and is depleting this amount over production from proven and probable reserves. This payment is capped at $1.3 million and extends over six years. In connection with the credit facility arranged for, but not used, the Company issued three-year warrants to acquire 1.5 million common shares of the Company (see Note 12).
The Company and Anvil will be required to pay the selling consortium of banks led by the IFC and DEG an additional $5.0 million on the first anniversary of the commencement of treatment of sulfide ore at BGL's facility, for which a feasibility study has been recently initiated. Management currently expects that this payment will not be due before 2002. This payment, if made, will be amortized over the remaining life of the mine. Due to the contingent nature of this consideration, the Company has not recorded any liability as part of the purchase price allocation for the BGL acquisition.
Based on current gold prices, revenues from the Bogoso Property are anticipated to be sufficient to cover all operating and capital costs for BGL. Cash flow from the Bogoso Property in excess of operating and capital costs will be used to pay interest and principal on the BGL Debt acquired by way of assignment to the Company and Anvil. Any remaining cash will be distributed to the shareholders of BGL, including Golden Star through dividends on BGL common shares. The Company will receive all of the interest and principal distributions from BGL until it recovers the initial purchase price plus all associated acquisition and financing costs incurred by it, including any purchase price adjustment for the acquisition of the Bogoso Property. Based on current gold prices, cash distributions to the Company from Bogoso are expected to be sufficient to cover the interest on debentures issued on August 1999 as part of a public offering and to fund Golden Star's other operating requirements at least until mid-2001.
Government of Ghana Special Rights
The Government of Ghana is entitled to acquire an additional 20% interest in BGL. If the Government of Ghana wishes to exercise this right, it must give reasonable notice to BGL. It must also pay such purchase price for the additional 20% interest as the Government of Ghana and BGL may agree on at the time. If there is no agreement, the purchase price will be the fair market value of such interest at such time as determined by arbitration conducted by the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. The Government of Ghana may also acquire further interests in BGL on terms mutually acceptable to the Government and BGL.
The Government of Ghana is entitled to acquire a special or golden share in any mining company at any time for no consideration or such consideration as the Government of Ghana and BGL may agree. The special share will constitute a separate class of shares with such rights as the Government of Ghana and BGL may agree. In the absence of such agreement, the special share will have the following rights:
. the special share will carry no voting rights, but the holder will be entitled to receive notice of and attend and speak at any general meeting of the members or any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares;
. the special share may only be issued to, held by or transferred to the Government or a person acting on behalf of the Government;
. the written consent of the holder of such special share must be obtained for all amendments to the organizational documents of the company, the voluntary winding-up or liquidation of the company or the disposal of any mining lease or the whole or any material part of the assets of the company; and
. the holder of the special share will be entitled to the payment of a nominal sum of 1,000 Ghanaian Cedis in a winding-up or liquidation of the company in priority to any payment to other members and may require the company to redeem the special share at any time for a nominal sum of 1,000 Cedis.
BGL has not issued or been requested to issue to date, any such special share to the Government of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana has a pre-emptive right to purchase all gold and other minerals produced by BGL. The purchase price will be such price as the Government of Ghana and BGL may agree on, or the price established by any gold hedging arrangement between BGL and any third party approved by the Government, or the publicly quoted market price prevailing for the minerals or products as delivered at the mine or plant where the right of preemption was exercised. The purchase price must be paid in foreign exchange. The Government of Ghana has agreed to take no preemptive action pursuant to its right to purchase such gold or other minerals so long as BGL sells gold in accordance with certain procedures for selling gold approved by the Bank of Ghana.
Royalties
Under the laws of Ghana, a holder of a mining lease is required to pay a royalty of not less than 3% and not more than 12% of the total revenues earned from the lease area. The royalty is payable on a quarterly basis. The Government of Ghana levies a royalty on BGL based on the profitability of its mining operations. The royalty is determined by the application of an operating ratio expressed in terms of the percentage that the operating margin bears to the value of gold from mining operations in every year. The total royalty paid in 1999 was 3% of total revenues.
Heads of Agreement with Anvil
The Company entered into a Heads of Agreement with Anvil (the "Anvil Agreement") outlining the key commercial terms and conditions under which the Company and Anvil agreed to associate themselves in a joint venture for the acquisition of BGL. The Company agreed to provide all of the funds for the initial purchase price and other acquisition costs for the acquisition of BGL. The Company provided Anvil a loan of $2.3 million (the "Anvil Loan") to fund Anvil's share of the BGL acquisition costs. The Company charges Anvil interest at a rate of 15% per year compounded monthly. In addition, Anvil's share of the accrued additional purchase price at December 31, 1999 was $1.5 million. All of the cash distributions from BGL, including Anvil's share, that are not paid to the Government of Ghana, will be paid to the Company until all of the acquisition costs, including interest, have been repaid. Anvil granted the Company a security interest in its share of BGL's shares and debt. If Anvil does not repay the Anvil Loan, the Company has certain security interests granted by Anvil but the Company will not have any other rights against Anvil or Anvil's other assets. In consideration for the Anvil Loan, Anvil issued to the Company two options (the "Anvil Options") that entitle the Company to purchase, at any time prior to September 30, 2001, up to 7 million Anvil shares at a price of Aus$0.10 per share.
If the Company or Anvil fails to pay or cause to pay its share of any approved BGL expense, the other party may advance the required funds on its behalf. The advance will be treated as a demand loan bearing interest at LIBOR plus 3%. If the defaulting party fails to repay that loan within 60 days, its participating interest in BGL will be diluted. The dilution will be a "straight-line" dilution under which the participating interest of the defaulting party will be reduced to the percentage that the total of its BGL contributions bears to the total BGL contributions made by both the defaulting party and the non-defaulting party. The participating interest of the non-defaulting party will be increased by the corresponding amount. If the participating interest of either the Company or Anvil is diluted to less than 10%, the remaining participating interest of that party in BGL will be automatically converted into a right
to receive 5% of the net profits received from BGL after Golden Star has recouped all of the Bogoso Acquisition Costs, plus accrued interest thereon.
So long as the Company holds at least a 50% equity interest, it will have the right to nominate a majority of the members of the board of directors of BGL. It will also have the right to nominate the Chairman of the BGL board as well as the managing director of BGL. Mr. Peter Bradford, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company is the current Chairman of the BGL board and Mr. Richard Gray is the Managing Director of BGL.
Geology
The Bogoso Property lies within the West African Precambrian shield, a geological formation that hosts three important Lower Proterozoic volcano/sedimentary sequences that are particularly important for gold mining: the Lower Birmian, the Upper Birimian and the Tarkwaian. The area is dominated by a major northeast-southwest trending structural feature referred to as the "Ashanti Trend" which extends over 200 kilometers and hosts deposits of the Ghana Gold Belt. This structure is closely aligned with the faulted contact zone between the metasedimentary and metavolcanic units of the Birimian and the clastic rocks of the Tarkwaian.
In the Bogoso area, the faulted contact zone is known as the "Main Crush Zone" and passes through the central part of the Bogoso Property for its entire 18.5- kilometer length. The Main Crush Zone lies within a structural corridor that varies in width from 1,000 to 2,500 meters. Some 90% of the gold mined to date at the Bogoso Property has come from the Main Crush Zone with the larger deposits being located at bends and junctions along this major fault. Additional faults and splays in the structural corridor may also be prospective for gold. The oxide ores tend to have fine-grained free gold that has been liberated during the weathering of pre-existing sulfides and oxidation extends from surface down to the approximate elevation of the water table. Below this, a transition zone of up to 20 meters of partially oxidized material directly overlies fresh sulfide mineralization.
Historical Mining Operations
Gold was first commercially mined at the Bogoso Property in the early 20th century. In 1935, Marlu Gold Mining Areas Ltd. started mining high-grade oxide ore from a series of open pits extending south from Bogoso North to Buesichem, just south of the Bogoso Property. Marlu also mined a small amount of ore from underground at Bogoso North, Marlu and Bogoso South. Marlu was mining the Buesichem pit when it shut down the mine operations in 1955. According to BGL's records, during its 20-year period of operations from 1935 to 1955, Marlu produced over 900,000 ounces of gold at an average recovered grade of 3.73 g/t.
Billiton PLC, then a unit of the Royal Dutch Shell group, took control of the Bogoso Property in the late 1980's. The initial feasibility study established a minable reserve of 5.96 million tonnes grading 4.0 grams gold per tonne, of which 461,000 tonnes (or less than 8%) comprised oxide ore. The feasibility study forecast gold recoveries of 83% from sulfide ore and 78% from oxide ore and estimated a waste to ore ratio of 5.6:1. Construction of a mining and processing facility was completed in 1991. The facility was designed to process oxide ores by using conventional CIL technology at a design capacity of 1.36 million tonnes per year and to process sulfide ores by using flotation, fluid bed roasting and CIL technology at a design capacity of 0.9 million tonnes per year.
Billiton encountered serious operation difficulties with the fluid bed roaster, which did not function as anticipated because the sulfide level in the concentrate was less than expected and because the clay content of the feed was higher than expected. Mechanical problems also occurred. As a result, Billiton closed the flotation circuit and roaster in early 1994. Following closure of the roaster, Billiton focused the Bogoso operations on oxide ore. The CIL plant has a capacity of approximately two million tonnes of oxide ore per year. However, only a few months of oxide ore were available at that time. Basic exploration has been successful in adding to the available quantity of oxide ore and the mine has operated as an oxide-only operation since 1994. Operating cash flows funded all the exploration costs.
Production and Reserves of Bogoso
Gold production from 1991 through 1999 totaled 901,902 ounces. Gold production from January to December 1999 was 130,465 ounces, compared to 122,585 ounces in 1998 and 108,186 ounces in 1997. The 6.4% increase in
production in 1999 was primarily attributable to a higher average head grade of 2.31 g/t compared to 2.19 g/t in 1998 and to 2.05 g/t in 1997. Throughput averaged approximately 5,958 tonnes per day during 1999, compared to 5,553 tonnes per day during 1998 and 5,229 tonnes per day during 1997. Gold recovery rates were 81.4% in 1999 compared to 85.8% in 1998, while direct operating costs, including royalties, were $190 per ounce in 1999 compared to $215 per ounce experienced in 1998. Quarterly production statistics for the Bogoso Mine for 1999 are as follows:
For 2000, the Bogoso Gold Mine is expected to produce approximately 114,000 ounces of gold at a direct operating cost of approximately $194 per ounce. Throughput is budgeted at approximately 5,748 tonnes per day. Head grades are anticipated to average 2.45 g/t with a budgeted gold recovery of 69%. During 2000, the stripping of waste is expected to result in a waste to ore ratio of approximately 2.6:1.
BGL has reported its Proven and Probable Reserves for year-end 1999 using a $290 gold price. BGL's Proven and Probable Reserves at December 31, 1999 stood at 3.263 million tonnes at an average grade of 2.2 g/t, representing approximately 0.230 million ounces of gold. This is compared to Proven and Probable Reserves at December 31, 1998 of 1.685 million tonnes at an average grade of 2.8 g/t, representing approximately 0.150 million ounces of gold. The increase represents the results of additional drilling of previously identified mineralized material and its subsequent conversion to reserves and the inclusion of low grade stockpiled material. The qualified person responsible for the estimation of reserves at Bogoso Gold Mine is Mr. Emmanuel Mensah-Aborampah, Projects Superintendent. SRK (UK) Limited have confirmed that the format of the reporting of the ore reserves and mineral resources (mineralized material) closely follows the guidelines and terminology set out in the Australasian Code for reporting of Identified Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (the JORC Code).
Reserves at Bogoso are derived from multiple sources including the Southern pits, Central pits, Northern pits and Stockpiles. The following table summarizes reserves from these sources at year-end 1998 and 1999:
(1) Reserves are calculated using a price of gold $290 per ounce with a cutoff grade of 1.2g/t
The Company has estimated its 70% share of Proven and Probable Reserves at Bogoso, as 2.28 million tonnes grading 2.2 g/t.
Mineralized Material
At year-end 1999, BGL reported mineralized material for the Bogoso Gold Mine, using a $325 gold price, as 15.89 million tonnes grading 2.9 g/t. Mineralized material is reported exclusive of reserves that have been reported above. The Company has estimated its 70% share of mineralized material at Bogoso, as 11.13 million tonnes grading 2.9
g/t. The qualified person responsible for the estimation of mineralized material at Bogoso Gold Mine is Mr. Albert Soboh, Chief Geologist. SRK (UK) Limited have confirmed that the format of the reporting of the ore reserves and mineral resources (mineralized material) closely follows the guidelines and terminology set out in the Australasian Code for reporting of Identified Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves (the JORC Code).
Mineralized material at Bogoso is derived from three sources: the Northern Pits, the Central Pits and the Southern Pits. The following table summarizes mineralized material for these sources at year-end 1999:
(1) Under the Australian JORC standards used by BGL, the mineralized material reported above would have been reported as Measured Resources of 2,343,000 tonnes, grading 1.9 g/t, Indicated Resources of 12,502,000 tonnes, grading 3.1 g/t and Inferred Resources of 1,049,000 tonnes, grading 2.4 g/t.
Mineralized material does not represent reserves and has not been included in the Company's proven and probable reserve estimates. Even though drilling and trenching indicate sufficient tonnage and grade to warrant further exploration or development expenditures, this mineralized material does not qualify under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission standards as being commercially minable until further drilling, metallurgical work and other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work are resolved.
Work Program
During 1999, mine exploration activities were performed to upgrade known zones of oxide mineralized material to reserves so as to provide feed for the plant. In addition, shallow drilling programs were performed by the mine exploration team to identify other mineralized zones with the potential for conversion to mineralized material.
The Company recently approved a program to delineate and expand the current sulfide resource. The program consisting of combined reverse circulation (RC) and diamond drilling (DD) commenced in late 1999 and will continue during 2000. The objectives of the program are: to validate historical drilling data; to fill in gaps between previously drilled holes; to test sulfide mineralization at depth and along strike; to delineate oxide and transition surfaces; to provide geotechnical and hydrogeological information for pit design and de-watering; to provide material for metallurgical and environmental testing.
The initial drilling program consists of two phases. Phase one includes approximately 3,000 meters of HQ diamond drilling and 8,000 meters of reverse circulation drilling. The second drilling phase, which is contingent on the results from phase one, will consist of approximately 3,500 meters of HQ diamond drilling and 3,500 meters of reverse circulation drilling. Management expects the initial program to be completed by the end of the first quarter 2000 and the estimated cost of the drilling program is $1.4 million.
In conjunction with the sulfide drilling campaign, exploration will be conducted both within the BGL leases as well as within surrounding exploration permits that have been optioned by BGL, to identify additional sources of oxide and transition mineralization.
Historical mining and exploration on the Bogoso Property has produced large amounts of data which are being combined into a central database. The exploration database, together with additional pit mapping and sampling will be used to delineate further oxide, transition and sulfide targets.
Environment
BGL has adopted World Bank environmental standards and is in substantial compliance with the environmental requirements imposed by Ghanaian laws and guidelines. BGL has completed significant work during 1999 to identify the outstanding reclamation liability and commenced rehabilitation work. Monthly expenditures for ongoing rehabilitation work, including the capping of sulfide material and the contouring and re-vegetation of waste dumps, have been approximately $150,000 per month. In connection with the acquisition of BGL, the Company and Anvil have reviewed the information and reports available and they agreed to restrict $6 million from BGL's existing cash to be used exclusively to fund environmental rehabilitation work.
Riyadh
The Company and BGL entered into an option agreement with Orovi Corporation ("Orovi") under which BGL may acquire a 100% interest in the Riyadh property in Ghana. The 49 km2 Riyadh property is located northwest of the Bogoso Property. Orovi Ghana Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Orovi of Denver, Colorado, owns the rights to the Riyadh prospecting license. Gold mineralization hosted by quartz veins within shear zones has previously been identified in the western half of the Riyadh property, approximately 15 kilometers northwest of the Bogoso mill. Previous exploration work by Orovi has indicated the existence of eight separate veins. Only the principal known vein, the "R Reef", has been subject to trenching and drilling.
An initial payment of $70,000 was made to Orovi. Under the agreement, in order to exercise its option, the Company must deliver a feasibility study by May 1, 2001, at which time a payment to Orovi equal to $10/ounce for the proven and probable reserves defined in the study, subject to independent verification, less any amounts previously paid to Orovi, will be due. The $10/ounce payment is payable 70% in cash and the remaining 30% in cash or the Company's shares, at its option, based on a 10-day average share price at the time the payment is due. Also, the Company and BGL will have to pay $5/ounce for any additional proven and probable reserves subsequently defined in excess of those determined in the feasibility study, to be assessed and paid biannually in cash. Upon completion of the feasibility study, BGL intends to apply for a mining lease under Ghanaian law in order to conduct mining operations on the Riyadh property for processing at the Bogoso mill.
Exploration at the Riyadh concession started during the first quarter of 2000. Exploration work to date includes digital data compilation, trench and drill hole surveys and sampling of trenches and road cuts. Exploration work planned on the Riyadh concession will progress in phases and will be dependent on results of earlier work.
THE OMAI GOLD MINE
The operating Omai gold mine is located in the Co-operative Republic of Guyana ("Guyana"), a former British colony, which obtained independence in 1966. Guyana has a surface area of 216,000 km2 with a population of approximately 800,000. The official language is English and the climate is tropical. Guyana is governed as a democratic republic, and the legal and land title systems are based on the English common law.
Omai Gold Mines Limited ("OGML") is an equity joint venture of the Government of Guyana, the Company and Cambior Inc. ("Cambior"). The Company owns a 30% common share equity interest in OGML. Cambior and the Government of Guyana own 65% and 5% of OGML, respectively. OGML owns the Omai Mining License and the Eagle Mountain, Omai River and Quartz Hill prospecting licenses.
The Omai mine is owned by OGML. Cambior is the manager of all mining and related operations. The mine is located on a 52 km2 mining license on the Essequibo River, approximately 160 km southwest of Georgetown, Guyana. Access to the mine is by improved road and ferry or by fixed-wing aircraft to an all- weather airstrip.
The Company and Cambior entered into an agreement with the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission ("GGMC") and the Government of Guyana on August 16, 1991 (the "Omai Mineral Agreement"), whereby, among other things, OGML was granted the right to obtain a mining license (which was granted on December 12, 1991 for a term of 20 years), and to carry out mining operations in accordance with the terms of the Omai Mineral Agreement. In addition, the Omai Mineral Agreement provides for the payment to the Government of Guyana of a
5% in-kind royalty from the Omai Mine. It also provides that capital and profits may be repatriated without restrictions.
Pursuant to the articles of association of OGML, the Government of Guyana has the right to a 5% carried interest in OGML and the subsequent right to acquire from the combined holdings of the Company and Cambior in the common shares of OGML (i) after the expiration of eight years from commencement of commercial production at the Omai Mine (which was achieved in January 1993), but before the expiration of the tenth year, 5% of the common shares of OGML issued and outstanding at such time; and (ii) after the expiration of ten years from commencement of commercial production, but before the expiration of the twelfth year, an additional 22% of the common shares of OGML issued and outstanding at such time. The purchase price will be the market value of the OGML shares based upon the North American stock market value of common shares of gold mining companies having similar production levels and potential, based upon the average market capitalization of such comparable companies taking into account their relative long term debt position. Should the government decide to exercise the options mentioned above, the Company and Cambior have each agreed to sell and deliver to the Government of Guyana one-half of the total number of common shares of OGML required to give effect to the Government of Guyana's right. If the Government of Guyana were to exercise both of its options as set forth above, the Company's common share equity interest in OGML would be reduced to 16.5%. The exercise of the options by the Government is not likely to affect the Company's financial position, results of operations and liquidity since the Company is not expecting to receive any cash flow from the operations of OGML in the near future. The articles of association contain a right of first refusal as typical in shareholder agreements.
Pursuant to OGML's articles of association, the Company received approximately $11.0 million of Class I redeemable preferred shares of OGML in recognition of past exploration costs incurred by the Company. Pursuant to their terms, these preferred shares must be redeemed prior to any distribution to the common shareholders of OGML out of 10% of net cash flow from operations of OGML (as defined in the Omai Mineral Agreement). The reimbursements must be calculated and paid quarterly to the Company. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999, the Company received $0.7 million as a result of the redemption of Class I preferred shares, for a total of $8.7 million in redemption of Class I preferred shares since the beginning of production in 1993. The amount so received was applied against the reimbursement of the loan made by OMGL to the Company. The Company does not expect to receive dividends from its common share holdings in OGML until debt owed by OGML and guaranteed by Cambior is repaid and Class II and III preferred shares held by Cambior are redeemed. As of December 31, 1999, OGML had $162 million in debt and a total of $50 million worth of Class II and III preferred shares outstanding. The Class III preferred shares have past cumulative unpaid dividends totaling $74 million as of December 31, 1999.
On August 19, 1995, a failure occurred in the main section of the tailings dam at the Omai Mine. The failure resulted in the discharge of cyanide-contaminated water into the Omai River, which in turn flowed into the Essequibo River. Production at the Omai Mine was suspended from August 19, 1995, and resumed on February 4, 1996, after the Government of Guyana and OGML had executed an agreement authorizing, under certain conditions, OGML to recommence commercial production at the Omai Mine.
As of December 31, 1999, approximately 1,000 individual claims have been made against OMGL in Guyana in connection with the tailings dam failure, of which 282 have been settled for an aggregate dollar amount of less than $1 million. Of the claims that remain unsettled, legal proceedings have been instituted against OGML with respect to approximately 300 individual claims and one class action (on behalf of 244 claimants). According to the management of Cambior, as disclosed in their public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, these claims are expected to be settled for amounts totaling less than $1 million, of which $600,000 has already been funded in advance by an insurance company as part of a settlement with OGML and Cambior.
Another class action (claiming to represent 23,000 claimants) was filed in August 1998 in the High Court of the Supreme Court of Judicature, Civil Jurisdiction in Guyana but was not served on the defendants (OGML, Cambior, two engineering firms and one insurance company) until August 1999. This class action is essentially an outgrowth of a class action initiated in 1997 and later dismissed by a Quebec court. The class action was amended in May 1999 to include Golden Star as defendant and then served on Golden Star in July 1999. The class action claims from the defendants, including Golden Star, $100 million in damages, allegedly resulting from the tailings dam failure. Management believes that, in addition to being without merit, the class action is open to attack on a number
of procedural grounds. A motion to have the action dismissed against Golden Star was filed in September 1999. The motion has not been heard yet. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously against this action.
The three-year limitation period for bringing legal proceedings against OGML and its shareholders, in Guyana or elsewhere, with respect to the tailings dam failure expired on August 19, 1998.
Geology
The Omai region is underlain by a series of Precambrian mafic to felsic volcanics and clastic sedimentary rocks of the Barama-Mazaruni Supergroup. These strata were intruded by intermediate to felsic plutons of the Younger Granite Group and mafic dykes of the Younger Basic Group. Prolonged uplift and weathering resulted in the development of thick latosols. Gold mineralization at Omai is hosted within three distinct settings: a) the Omai Intrusive Complex, b) the Wenot Lake zone weathered profile and c) alluvial deposits.
The Omai Intrusive Complex consists of an approximately 400m by 500m lobate, altered quartz diorite pluton that intrudes mafic volcanic rocks. Gold mineralization within quartz diorite is confined to widespread, narrow, regularly spaced and discrete but discontinuous quartz and ferroan calcite and pyrite veins. Alterations associated with gold mineralization include carbonitization, sulphidation and silicification.
The Wenot Lake zone is an elongated lateritic and saprolitic gold deposit developed over a sequence of interbedded mafic to felsic volcanic flows and tuffs. This sequence of rocks underwent weathering under humid, tropical conditions, leading to the formation of a well- developed weathered profile. Primary gold mineralization is found in anastomosing stratabound quartz- carbonate veins filling shears. Secondary gold is found in both the saprolitic and lateritic horizons. Laterites contain the bulk of the mineralization in the Wenot zone.
Alluvial gold deposits at Omai are contained in small drainage systems made up largely of tailings from hydraulic mining of latosols over the Omai Intrusive complex and Wenot Lake Zone.
Production and Reserves of Omai Mine
The Omai Mine was brought into commercial production in January 1993. Gold production from 1993 through the end of 1999 totaled 1,858,818 ounces.
Gold production in 1999 was 306,063 ounces, compared to 327,546 ounces in 1998 and 338,496 ounces in 1997. The 7% decrease in production in 1999 was primarily attributable to a lower average head grade of 1.35 g/t compared to 1.44 g/t in 1998, while throughput averaged approximately 20,950 tonnes per day during 1999, compared to 21,100 tonnes per day in 1998. Gold recovery rates were 92% in 1999 and 1998, while direct mining costs, including royalties, were $235 per ounce in 1999, a slight improvement over the $240 per ounce experienced in 1998.
Quarterly production statistics for the Omai mine for 1999 are as follows:
For 2000, the Omai mine is expected to produce approximately 300,000 ounces of gold at a direct mining cost of approximately $241 per ounce. Throughput is budgeted at approximately 21,095 tonnes per day processing approximately 62% hard rock. Head grades are anticipated to average 1.33 g/t with a budgeted gold recovery of
91%. During 2000, the continued stripping of waste is expected to result in a waste to ore ratio of approximately 2.8:1, compared to a life of mine waste to ore ratio of 1.8:1.
OGML has reported its Proven and Probable Reserves for year-end 1999 using a $325 gold price as in 1998. On the basis of a $325 gold price, Omai's Proven and Probable Reserves at December 31, 1999 stood at 36.7 million tonnes at an average grade of 1.3 g/t, representing approximately 1.59 million ounces of gold. This is compared to Proven and Probable Reserves at December 31, 1998 of 42.9 million tonnes at an average grade of 1.4 g/t, representing approximately 1.89 million ounces of gold. The qualified person responsible for the estimation of the reserves of the Omai Gold Mine is Francois Viens, General Manager Mining Geology, Cambior. The Company has not independently verified the Proven and Probable Reserves reported by Cambior.
Reserves at Omai are derived from four sources: the Fennell Pit, the Wenot Lake Pit, alluvial deposits and stockpiles. The following table summarizes the reserves for these sources at year-end 1998 and 1999:
(1) Reserves are calculated using a price of gold $325 per ounce with a cutoff grade of 0.35 g/t for soft rock reserves and 0.70 g/t for hard rock reserves.
Mineralized Material
At year-end 1999, Cambior reported mineralized material for Omai, using a $325 gold price, as 6.1 million tonnes grading 1.5g/t. As a Canadian reporting company, Cambior reported this result as inferred resources in compliance with Canadian legal reporting requirements. The qualified person responsible for the estimation of mineralized material for the Omai mine is Francois Viens, General Manager Mining Geology, Cambior. The Company has not independently verified the estimate of mineralized material reported by Cambior.
Mineralized material does not represent reserves and has not been included in the Company's proven and probable reserve estimates because even though enough drilling and trenching indicate a sufficient amount and grade to warrant further exploration or development expenditures, these mineral deposits do not qualify under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission standards as being commercially minable until further drilling, metallurgical work and other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work are resolved.
Eagle Mountain
The Eagle Mountain project is located in Central Guyana, 50 km from the Omai Mine. Prior to its sale in December 1998, the Company owned a 100% interest in the Eagle Mountain Prospecting License. The transfer of the Eagle Mountain License by the Company to OGML was approved by the government of Guyana on December 21, 1998. The purchase agreement between the Company, OGML and Cambior Inc. was executed on December 23, 1998 and, in accordance with the agreement, the Company received $80,000. As a result of the transfer to OGML, the Company now has a 30% indirect interest in the Eagle Mountain project. In consideration for receiving a 5% free carried interest (its interest in OGML), the government of Guyana has accepted to charge a consumption tax of only 5% on fuel used with respect to the Eagle Mountain property.
GROSS ROSEBEL
The Gross Rosebel project is located in Suriname, a former Dutch colony that became independent in 1975. Suriname has a surface area of 163,000 km2, a tropical climate and a population of approximately 470,000. The
official language is Dutch with English spoken as a second, commercial and technical language. Suriname has a democratically elected government.
The Company's operations in Suriname in 1999 consisted primarily of care and maintenance for Gross Rosebel and continued engineering evaluation of the project. During 1999, the Company incurred total expenditures for Gross Rosebel of $0.7 million, $0.4 million of which was reimbursed by the Company's joint venture partners. Total expenditures during 1998 amounted to $2.0 million, $1.0 million of which was reimbursed by the Company's joint venture partners.
Pursuant to a mineral agreement, dated May 8, 1992, as amended and restated on April 7, 1994 (the "Gross Rosebel Agreement"), between the Company, the Government of Suriname and the state mining company, Grasshopper Aluminum Company N.V. ("Grassalco"), Grassalco assigned to the Company its interest in the Gross Rosebel right of exploration, a 170 km2 area in north-central Suriname. The National Assembly of Suriname ratified the Gross Rosebel Agreement on March 1, 1994.
The Gross Rosebel Right of Exploration originally transferred to the Company was for a term of three years expiring in March 1995. It was then renewed for an additional term of two years expiring in March 1997. The Company filed an application for the additional two-year extension it is entitled to pursuant to the mining laws of Suriname. The application is still pending. Under the mining laws of Suriname, a right of exploration does not terminate by expiration of its term if the holder has in time applied for prolongation of such right and such application has not been denied. Moreover, under the mining laws of Suriname, an existing right of exploration remains legally in force until a decision on the application for a right of exploitation has been taken.
As partial consideration for the transfer of the Gross Rosebel right of exploration, the Company issued 60,000 common shares to Grassalco on June 28, 1994. Under the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement, the Company committed to expend an aggregate of $8.0 million on exploration activities over a five-year period commencing on May 8, 1992. As of May 8, 1997, the Company had spent approximately $25.8 million on the Gross Rosebel property and, as a result, fulfilled its expenditure requirement. Of the amounts expended by the Company, Cambior has contributed $14.1 million by way of joint venture recoveries (see discussion of Cambior Joint Venture below). In addition, in consideration for Grassalco making the Gross Rosebel property available for exploration, the Company paid $1.0 million to Grassalco pursuant to the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement. Under the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement, the Company had the obligation to submit to the Republic of Suriname's Minister in charge of mining activities and Grassalco a feasibility study and an environmental impact statement (as these terms are defined in the Gross Rosebel Agreement) on or prior to May 8, 1997. In the event that Golden Star failed to timely submit such feasibility study and environmental impact statement, Golden Star was deemed to have waived its rights resulting from the Gross Rosebel Agreement and was obliged to reassign the Right of Exploration to Grassalco at its demand, whereupon the Gross Rosebel Agreement was to terminate. On May 7, 1997, a feasibility study and an executive summary of the environmental impact statement were submitted to the Government of Suriname. In June 1997, a more detailed environmental impact statement was submitted. The Government of Suriname has not yet approved the feasibility study or the environmental impact statement. There can be no assurance that the Government of Suriname will approve the feasibility study and grant a right of exploitation to the operating company to be formed by the two joint venture partners.
Upon approval by the Suriname Government of the feasibility study and the environmental impact statement, the Gross Rosebel right of exploration may be converted into a right of exploitation for an initial term of 25 years. The right of exploitation is to be granted to an operating company (the "Operating Company"). Within 30 days of the grant of the right of exploitation, the Company and Cambior will be obligated to pay to Grassalco the total sum of $2.5 million as compensation for previous exploration expenditures incurred by Grassalco.
Upon the grant of a right of exploitation to the Operating Company, Grassalco will have the option, for a period of 60 days, to purchase an undiluted 20% common share equity interest in the Operating Company by paying 20% of all exploration costs previously incurred by the Company and 20% of all subsequent costs of the Operating Company. Grassalco has a further option to purchase a second undiluted 20% interest in the shares of the Operating Company eight years following the date of commencement of commercial production (as defined in the Gross Rosebel Agreement) in consideration for the payment of a sum equal to 90% of the market value of such shares, as determined in accordance with the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement.
The Gross Rosebel Agreement provides that (i) a royalty of two percent of the gold produced from the Gross Rosebel property is payable in kind to Grassalco and (ii) an additional one-quarter of one percent royalty is payable for the life of the project to a charitable fund to promote natural resources development in Suriname. In addition, a royalty of two percent of the proceeds received on any other minerals produced (less transportation and processing costs) is also payable to Grassalco. An advance royalty payment against the above-mentioned royalties of $6.5 million must be made to Grassalco within 90 days of receipt of the first proceeds from the sale of minerals at Gross Rosebel and a further $6.5 million must be made 12 months later. Further, in the event the price of gold exceeds $500 per ounce Grassalco is entitled to an additional 6.5% royalty on that portion of the sales price which exceeds $500 per ounce.
The Cambior Joint Venture
The Company and Cambior entered into an agreement on June 7, 1994, pursuant to which Cambior was granted the option to earn an undivided 50% interest in the Company's rights in the Gross Rosebel Agreement and Gross Rosebel property. On January 8, 1996, Cambior announced its decision to exercise its option to acquire 50% of the Company's rights in the Gross Rosebel property after expending $6.0 million in exploration and development activities on the property, as required by the June 1994 option agreement. As also required under the agreement, Cambior advanced a further $2.5 million in expenditures to be repaid out of initial project earnings. Since April 1996, when Cambior earned a 50% interest in Gross Rosebel, the Company and Cambior have been contributing equally to programs and budgets with respect to the Gross Rosebel property.
Under the June 1994 option agreement, Cambior must use its best efforts to secure financing for at least 65% of eventual mine development costs from third parties. Cambior assumed managerial responsibility for the preparation of the feasibility study. Cambior has the right to be appointed manager of all subsequent mining and related operations of the project. The option agreement provides for the customary right of first refusal typical found in such agreements.
The Property
The Gross Rosebel right of exploration covers 170 km/2/ (17,000 ha.) and is located 80 km south of the capital city of Paramaribo. Access is via a paved highway followed by an all-weather laterite surface road. Gold was reportedly first discovered in the area in 1879 and since then more than half of Suriname's recorded production has been produced from the district by dredging and small artisanal surface and underground workings. Commencing in 1974, Surplacer N.V., a subsidiary of Placer Development, a Canadian mining company (now Placer Dome), conducted an extensive exploration program of trenching, hand augering and rotary drilling over a period of three years. Subsequent field work was conducted by Grassalco over a period of seven years and a feasibility study was prepared and completed in 1984 by a Canadian engineering firm controlled by Grassalco.
Geology
The Gross Rosebel property is underlain by Proterozoic Armina, Paramaca, and Rosebel metasedimentary and metavolcanic greenstone formations. These units are intruded by a large tonalitic stock near the southern boundary of the property, which has resulted in doming of the adjacent Armina rocks and the development of steep reverse faults. The greenstone units are folded into a broad east-west trending and westerly plunging synclinal structure. Gold mineralization associated with at least five generations of hydrothermal quartz veins occur over large areas both in the south and north limbs of the syncline where these are cut by strong west-northwest trending shear zones. Locally, mineralization is controlled by zones of dilation along the shear planes and by drag folding. Intense tropical weathering has developed a residual surface laterite and saprolite profile of up to 50 m thick, overlying bedrock. Gold mineralization has been established by the Company within at least ten separate target areas including Royal Hill, Mayo, Rosebel, Koolhoven, Pay Caro, East Pay Caro, "J" Zone, Bigi Asanjangmoni, Mama Kreek and Spin Zone. All of these target areas are capped by mineralized laterite blankets typically between 3 to 10 m in thickness overlying less continuous shear and/or fold related mineralization in saprolite and bedrock. Both types of deposits are being defined for potential mining.
Mine Development
A formal feasibility study was submitted to the Government of Suriname in May 1997. The study contained a description and analysis of the economic and commercial viability of bringing into production and operating a mine on Gross Rosebel assuming a gold price of between $380 and $400 during the life of the mine. Development of the Gross Rosebel project has been deferred by the joint venture partners pending receipt of necessary governmental approvals including approval of the feasibility study, resolution of several development issues, economic concessions from the government and improved gold prices. There can be no assurance that the government of Suriname will approve the May 1997 feasibility study and the environmental impact statement and therefore grant a right of exploitation to the Operating Company until an acceptable feasibility study, based on current gold prices, is produced by the joint venture. Some of the development issues that must be resolved prior to development, include, amongst other things, the structure of the Operating Company, the ability to secure foreign investment insurance, availability of financing from banks and other financial institutions, and relocation of Nieuw Koffiekamp, a small village located within the concession. Although the Company believes that these issues can be resolved, there can be no assurance that it will be the case. The project will continue to be on care and maintenance until these issues are resolved.
Work Program
Metallurgical tests were performed during 1998 on representative soft rock ores from Gross Rosebel. The tests demonstrated favorable agglomeration and gold recovery characteristics for soft ore with average recoveries of 88% obtained over a 30-day leach cycle in large column heap leach test. Equivalent metallurgical tests were also completed on representative hard rock ores, yielding average gold recoveries in the range of 40% to 50% over a 30 day period in column tests.
Engineering activities performed during 1999 were largely directed at determining development alternatives for the project. In August the company announced the outcome of an independent scoping study. This was performed to model the potential benefits of applying a low cost heap leach processing approach to the project. Results of the study tend to support the Company's belief that the project could be developed at a profit even in a low gold price environment. The outcome of the study has prompted further discussions to consider additional suitable mining and processing methods.
A primary consideration of the studies and discussions performed to date has been the tropical environmental conditions experienced at Gross Rosebel and, in particular. the above average amount of rainfall. As part of the study, modifications were made to the standard heap leach design to take into account the additional rainfall utilizing rain covers over the heaps to help control water balances. Oversized evaporation systems and a cyanide destruction system were built into the design to cope with the need to treat water during periods of particularly heavy rainfalls.
The Company plans to perform additional test work to confirm the findings of the scoping study and to provide assurance that the heaps will be capable of withstanding periods of high rainfall. Discussions are ongoing with our joint venture partner to develop the optimum strategy for developing the project.
The Company's budgeted expenditures in 2000 on Gross Rosebel are $0.5 million (before joint venture recoveries) and will consist of a modest level of engineering studies to consider a number of low cost development and processing alternatives including conventional CIP, vat and heap leaching as well as other saprolite-only and staged development mining alternatives. These studies are intended to determine the viability of alternative processing designs that may make the project feasible at lower gold prices by reducing capital and operating costs. These studies are anticipated to be completed during 2000 and will determine scope of further evaluation work and/or development programs.
Mineralized Material
Cambior recently announced its year-end 1999 mining reserves and mineral resources with respect to the Gross Rosebel project. For year-end 1999 Cambior reported their 50% share of mineralized material (reported by Cambior as measured and indicated resources under National Instrument 43-101 of the Canadian securities commissions) at
Gross Rosebel, at 20.7 million tonnes grading 1.6 g/t. This estimate was calculated by Cambior on the basis of a $325 gold price. This estimate is unchanged from the estimate reported at year-end 1998. The Company is reporting Cambior's results for Gross Rosebel as mineralized material. (See "Item 1. Mineralized Material Table".) The Company's share of the mineralized material for Gross Rosebel is 20.7 million tonnes grading 1.6 g/t. The Company has not independently verified the estimate reported by Cambior.
Mineralized material does not represent reserves and has not been included in the Company's proven and probable reserve estimates because even though enough drilling and trenching indicate a sufficient amount and grade to warrant further exploration or development expenditures, these mineral deposits do not qualify under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission standards as being commercially minable until further drilling, metallurgical work and other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work are resolved.
FRENCH GUIANA PROPERTIES
General
French Guiana is part of the French national territory and has been an overseas "Departement" of France since 1946. The Departement, with an area of 84,000 km/2/ and a population of approximately 130,000, has two representatives in the French National Assembly and one representative in the French Senate. Under the French Constitution, French Guiana is governed by the same laws as metropolitan France, subject to modifications (including those affecting tax and mining laws and regulations) that may be adopted to reflect the historical, cultural, geographical and economic characteristics of French Guiana and provide for regional administration. An appointed Prefect, representing the Government of France, holds governmental and administrative powers locally. A 19-member, locally-elected General Council votes on departmental budget and other local matters.
The mineral rights held by our French subsidiaries are subject to French mining laws applicable in French Guiana, the most important being Decrees no.55-586 of May 20, 1955 and no. 56-1039 of October 5, 1956 (the "1955 and 1956 Decrees"), and the law no. 98-297 of April 21, 1998 (the "1998 Law") that partially extended and adapted the French Mining Code to the French overseas departments (including French Guiana). The 1998 Law provides that all existing permits continue to have full force and effect during their terms and that all applications for extension of existing permits filed before the publication of the 1998 Law remain subject to the 1955 and 1956 Decrees. Permits granted or extended since the publication of the 1998 Law are subject to the French Mining Code.
The grant of mining titles in French Guiana is administered by the Direction Regionale de l'Industrie, de la Recherche et de l'Environnement ("DRIRE") and the Ministry of Industry. There are two different types of mining titles under French law: permits and concessions. Under the 1955 and 1956 Decrees, two types of exploration permits could be obtained, the A and B types. An exploration permit conveys for a specific area of land the exclusive right of prospecting and exploration for the substances to which it relates. Permits of Type "B" are valid for two years and renewable twice for periods of two years each. The surface of type "B" permits covers a square area of 25 km/2/ each. Type "A" permits are valid for five years and can be renewed at least once for an additional five-year term. The French Mining Code (now partially applicable to French Guiana) provides for only one type of exploration permit called Permis exclusif de recherche ("PER"). PER can be granted for a period of up to five years and can be renewed for two additional periods of up to five years each.
The holder of an exploration permit who can demonstrate the presence of an exploitable mineral deposit within the area covered by the exploration permit and has the financial and technical capacity to bring the project to exploitation can obtain a mineral concession. A mineral concession confers upon its holder an immovable right, which is distinct from the actual ownership of the underlying land for a term of up to 50 years. The 1998 Law provides that all concessions that were granted for an unlimited amount of time under the 1955 and 1956 Decrees will expire on December 31, 2018 subject to being renewed twice for up to 25 additional years. Concessions may be mortgaged, leased, sold or otherwise transferred or inherited, in whole or in part and may be merged or subdivided, subject to authorization for the transaction being granted by a decree issued by the French government after consultation with specific agencies.
Guyanor Ressources S.A.
All of the Company's mineral interests in French Guiana are held through its 71% owned publicly traded subsidiary Guyanor Ressources. Guyanor is a societe anonyme incorporated under the laws of France on April 20, 1993 with its head and registered offices located at Lot. Calimbe 2, Route du Tigre, B.P. 750, 97300 Cayenne, French Guiana.
Guyanor owns mineral rights (either directly or through its subsidiaries) for the Yaou, Dorlin, Paul Isnard, Eau-Blanche and St-Elie gold projects and the Dachine diamond project. All of the properties are in the exploration stage, except for the Yaou and Dorlin projects, which are at the pre-feasibility stage. Except for Dachine, the other projects were in care and maintenance for part of 1999.
During 1999, Guyanor spent $3.0 million on exploration and in care and maintenance expenditures, of which $1.4 million was reimbursed by joint venture partners. In 1998, Guyanor had spent $4.7 million, $1.2 million of which was reimbursed by joint venture partners. The Company advanced $3.5 million to Guyanor in 1999. Total budgeted exploration expenditures by Guyanor for 2000 are $0.7 million. The Company has committed, subject to availability of adequate funding, to continue funding on a reasonable best effort basis the operations of Guyanor for the remainder of 2000.
YAOU AND DORLIN
Pursuant to an agreement, dated July 16, 1993, the Company acquired from BHP for $4.3 million a 63.3% participating interest in a joint venture between BHP and the Bureau de recherches geologiques et minieres or BRGM with respect to six type "B" exploration permits covering an area known as Yaou and six type "B" exploration permits covering an area known as Dorlin in French Guiana. In August 1993, the Company transferred its 63.3% participating interest in the joint venture to Guyanor at cost. Further to an agreement dated August 3, 1993, between the Company and BRGM and a subsequent agreement, dated September 23, 1993, among the Company, Guyanor and BRGM, Guyanor acquired for $2.5 million BRGM's 36.7% interest in the joint venture assets owned for the benefit of the joint venture by BRGM. In addition, Guyanor agreed to pay to BRGM a further FF14.0 million (approximately $2.1 million) as follows: FF7.0 million at the time of completion of a bankable feasibility study on either the Yaou or Dorlin properties and FF7.0 million at the time of commencement of commercial production on either of these properties. The transfer of the Yaou and Dorlin permits from the BRGM to Guyanor was approved by the relevant French regulatory authorities on May 25, 1994. Both BHP and BRGM are arms' length parties to Guyanor and the Company.
Guyanor and the Company entered into an option agreement with Cambior, dated as of May 11, 1994, pursuant to which Cambior was granted the option to acquire a 50% interest in the operating company to hold the Yaou and Dorlin permits in French Guiana. Cambior exercised the option after having spent the $11.0 million expenditure commitment in September 1997. Since then, Cambior and Guyanor have participated equally in the funding of the joint venture's expenditures. The acquisition by Cambior of any interest in the Yaou and Dorlin permits is subject to French governmental approval. There can be no assurance that such approval will be granted. Cambior is responsible for the preparation of a feasibility study on the properties and will, if warranted, manage the development and operation of future mining operations.
Guyanor currently holds ten type "B" permits, two of the Yaou permits initially granted having expired in February 1998. Applications for the renewal of the ten permits were filed within the legal deadline in 1996 and 1997 and are still pending. The period of validity of the permits are, by law, extended until the French administration takes a decision on the application. If renewed, the permits would be valid for two years. The Company also filed two applications for type "A" permits in 1997. One application covers the Yaou project and the other covers the Dorlin project. The applications have been approved by the DRIRE and were submitted to the Ministry of Mines for final approval. The type "A" permits, if granted, would replace the type "B" permits. It is currently contemplated that the type "A" permits will be granted directly to Societe Miniere Yaou-Dorlin ("SMYD"), a French company, created by Cambior and Guyanor to hold the Yaou and Dorlin mineral rights. Cambior and Guyanor will each hold 50% of the shares of SMYD. The applications are currently under review. It is the Company's understanding that they could be granted by the end of March 2000.
The Properties
The Yaou permits currently cover a total area of 100 km/2/ (10,000 ha.) located some 210 km southwest of Cayenne. Access to the property is by helicopter or four-wheel drive vehicle on 17 km of dirt road from the town of Maripasoula, which is accessible by chartered and daily scheduled fixed-wing aircraft from Cayenne.
The Dorlin permits cover a total area of 150 km/2/ (15,000 ha.) and are located some 180 km southwest of Cayenne and 60 km east of Maripasoula. The property is accessible by helicopter and a 500 m airstrip located on the property is suitable for fixed wing aircraft. Access is also available by boat during the rainy season.
Geology
The geology of the Yaou project area consists of a folded and sheared sequence of Lower Proterozoic mafic and ultramafic volcanics and volcaniclastics, with minor intercalations of fine-grained clastic sediments. Prior to folding, these were intruded by dioritic bodies. Two generations of granitic plutons bound the property to the east and south. A north-north-west striking dolerite dyke of Permo-Triassic age cuts through the property. Exploration has defined three principal zones of gold mineralisation, mainly associated with narrow, deformed felsic intrusive bodies and finely laminated felsic tuffs. These zones, Yaou Central, Chaina and IJK, have been evaluated by intensive deep augering, trenching and core drilling.
The geology of the Dorlin project area consists of sheared and folded greenstone units of Lower Paramaca sequence. Exploration has identified an 11km long zone of soil geochemistry anomalies associated with a radiometric potassium anomaly. Within this anomalous zone one major, N-S trending gold mineralized system, Montagne Nivre, associated with tourmalinization, silicification and pyritization, has been intensively explored by deep auger, trenching and core drilling.
Work Program
During 1999, efforts at Yaou and Dorlin focused on the completion and submission of the "Memoires Techniques", or development studies, required for planned mining concession applications. The completed studies were submitted as required on March 31, 1999. The development concept proposed in the Memoires Techniques, involved consideration of a 10,000 tonne per day milling operation at Yaou and concurrent development of a 5,000 tonne per day heap leach operation for soft rock mineralization at Dorlin. Following completion of mining at Yaou, the milling facilities would be moved to Dorlin, approximately 45 kilometers east of Yaou, where hard rock mining and milling would then begin. The principal result of the Memoires Techniques studies indicated the need to increase mineralized material so as to justify project development. Additional environmental and engineering test work was also identified as being required.
Following submission of the Memoires Techniques the "A" permit applications were submitted to the French authorities so as to provide time to perform additional exploration work. During the remainder of 1999 both projects were placed under care and maintenance. Work was confined to ongoing environmental monitoring. The Company is currently considering whether to demobilize the camps until proper authorization to continue exploration activities has been received. The Company is also holding discussions to establish the infra-structural requirements upon which feasibility of development will depend. There can be no assurance that the projects will prove to be economically feasible in the future.
During 1999, Guyanor's expenditures on Yaou and Dorlin totaled $1.2 million, $0.8 million of which was reimbursed by Cambior under the above-mentioned agreement. During 1998, Guyanor spent a total of $2.1 million on the Yaou project, of which Cambior reimbursed $0.7 million. Guyanor has budgeted $0.1 million in 2000 for its shares of expenditures at Yaou and Dorlin.
Mineralized Material
Cambior recently announced its year-end 1999 mining reserves and measured and indicated resources (mineralized material), reported on the basis of a $325 gold price as previously reported for year end 1998. At year-end 1999, Cambior reported its 50% share of mineralized material for Yaou and Dorlin, using a $325 gold price, as 8.2 million tonnes grading 1.9g/t. The Company's share of the mineralized material for Yaou and Dorlin is 5.9 million tonnes grading 1.9 g/t. As a Canadian reporting company, Cambior reported these results as measured and indicated resources in compliance with Canadian securities law reporting requirements. There is no change of tonnage or grade between this result and that reported at year- end 1998. The qualified person responsible for the estimation of mineralized material for the Yaou and Dorlin project is Francois Viens, General Manager Mining Geology, Cambior. The Company has not independently verified the estimates reported by Cambior for Yaou and Dorlin.
The above results reflect work performed by Cambior to investigate the potential of mining these mineral deposits. Open pits have been modeled using reasonable slopes and using average mining and milling costs for Yaou of $1.10 per tonne and $7.50 per tonne respectively and using average mining and milling costs for Dorlin of $0.90 per tonne and $6.50 per tonne respectively. These results only reflect mineralized material from within the pits modeled.
The Company is reporting these results as mineralized material. Mineralized material does not represent reserves and has not been included in the Company's proven and probable reserve estimates because even though enough drilling and trenching indicate a sufficient amount and grade to warrant further exploration or development expenditures, these mineral deposits do not qualify under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission standards as being commercially minable until further drilling, metallurgical work and other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work are resolved.
PAUL ISNARD AND EAU-BLANCHE
On October 29, 1994, Guyanor acquired an interest in the Paul Isnard and Eau- Blanche properties by way of the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Societe de Travaux Publics et de Mines Auriferes en Guyane ("SOTRAPMAG") SOTRAPMAG held, directly or indirectly, eight mineral concessions (the "Paul Isnard Concessions") and four type "B" exploration permits. Since then, all type "B" permits have expired or were relinquished. The concessions will expire on December 31, 2018 but can be renewed for an additional 25 years.
A type "A" permit (referred to as the "Eau-Blanche Permit") covering an area of approximately 326 km/2/ was granted to Guyanor on November 30, 1999 for an initial period of three years. The type "A" permit includes most of the area covered by the four type "B" permits as well as a new area adjacent to the Paul Isnard property.
Agreement with LaSource
In conjunction with Guyanor's acquisition of SOTRAPMAG, BRGM relinquished its rights under an option from Alcatel Alsthom Compagnie Generale d'Electricite to acquire any primary deposit located within the Paul Isnard Concessions. In consideration therefor, Guyanor paid to BRGM the sum of FF2.5 million (approximately $505,000) and LaSource Developpement S.A., a company affiliated to BRGM ("LaSource"), received an initial 25% participating interest in two joint ventures for the exploration and exploitation of primary gold deposits on the Paul Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects. LaSource did not contribute its share of 1997, 1998 and 1999 exploration expenditures. By July 31, 1999, Guyanor's interest in the Paul Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects had increased to approximately 90.2% and 91.2%, respectively. As a result of LaSource's participating interest having decreased below 10%, LaSource's interest in the joint ventures was automatically converted to a 2.5% of net profits in each project. Therefore, Guyanor has now a 100% interest in the Paul Isnard and Eau Blanche properties.
The Properties
The Paul Isnard and Eau-Blanche properties are located in the western part of French Guiana, some 200 km west of Cayenne. The properties are accessed from St-Laurent-du-Maroni, either by air, at a distance of 75 km to the south, or by means of a 115 km-long laterite road. The first 62-km section of this road is maintained by the government and the remaining 53-km section by SOTRAPMAG.
There are two prominent mountain chains bordering the properties that form the edges of a basin in which alluvial gold deposits have accumulated. Management believes this alluvial gold originated from gold-bearing rocks from the Decou- Decou and Lucifer mountains and was transported downward by high-energy streams, concentrating the gold in the gravel beds of streams in the Citron area of the Paul Isnard property.
Geology
The Paul Isnard project covers a Lower Proterozoic greenstone belt comprised dominantly of mafic metavolcanic rocks with lesser felsic meta volcanic rocks, metavolcaniclastics and meta sediments. These have been intruded by intermediate granitic rocks of similar age.
The Decou-Decou mountain located to the south of the property is formed of volcanic rocks that, at the summit, are covered by degraded lateritic layers. The Lucifer mountain to the north-east is formed of basic intrusive rocks. The basin between the mountains is underlain by a Proterozoic sequence of mafic to felsic volcanics and clastic sediments of the Paramaca and Orapu groups, cut by ultramafic to felsic intrusives.
At Montagne D'Or the host stratigraphy for mineralization is a 400+ meter thick section of bi-modal felsic and mafic volcanics with lesser volcaniclastics, particularly at the base. The eastern part of the section contains more mafic volcanics than the western section. The section is intruded by a largely post mineral and later deformation swarm of mafic dykes or sills. The section contains at least three unique time stratigraphic horizons marked by chemical sediments and thin lithologically distinctive flows designated as "favorable sequences".
Mineralization consists of two principal types: disseminated zones or stringer mineralization and semi-massive (SMS) mineralization. The SMS occurs mainly within the favorable sequences that can be reasonably correlated between the widely spaced (200m) drill sections. Both contain mainly pyrite with lesser pyrrhotite, chalcopyrite, sphalerite and arsenopyrite. A third more localized mineralization type, "highly chloritic one" has also been identified.
Work Program
During 1999 Guyanor retained the services of a notable Volcanic Massive Sulfide (VMS) specialist from Canada to evaluate the potential of the Paul Isnard and Eau Blanche areas to host gold rich, polymetallic VMS deposits that might be associated with the Montagne d'Or deposit. This work, utilizing geologic, geophysical, geochemical and whole rock geochemistry data suggested that the area is very similar to other VMS districts, especially in Canada and Scandinavia. Furthermore, the study indicated that the mineralization at Montagne d'Or is similar to known deposits in the Snow Lake Camp district of Manitoba. Such districts tend to host multiple base metal/precious metal deposits.
In light of depressed gold prices during 1999, Guyanor restricted field activities to follow-up geochemical evaluation and trenching at the Elysee target, northwest of the Montagne d'Or deposit and continued evaluation of the Montagne d'Or VMS setting.
Total expenditures in 1999 were $0.8 million for Paul Isnard and Eau-Blanche. Total expenditures in 1998 were $1.0 million for Paul Isnard and $0.1 million for Eau-Blanche, of which $0.1 million wase reimbursed through the previous joint venture. Exploration expenditures for Paul Isnard in 2000 are budgeted to be up to $0.4 million (depending on market conditions and joint venture interest). Efforts in 2000 will focus primarily on identification of additional targets to supplement what had been previously outlined at Montagne d'Or. Work will include follow-up geochemical evaluation and trenching at the Elysee target, northwest of the Montagne d'Or deposit and continued evaluation of the Montagne d'Or VMS setting. Additional work may include, subject to availability of funding, an airborne geophysical survey of the entire project area to investigate the possibility of additional geologic settings similar to that found at Montagne d'Or.
Mineralized Material
In February 1999, Guyanor updated its geologic model following the deepening of one drillhole and the addition of eight new drillholes. A new estimate takes into account of the additional information gained from the drilling
program and the subsequent increase in confidence. Open pits were modeled using reasonable slopes and using average mining and milling cost of $1.10 per tonne and $9.10 per tonne respectively. The Company has estimated its 71% share of Paul Isnard, using a $325 gold price, as 4.4 million tonnes grading 2.8 g/t. This report only reflects mineralized material estimated to be present within the open pits modeled by the Company. The qualified person responsible for the estimation of mineralized material for the Paul Isnard project is Declan Costelloe, Manager Mining Geology, Golden Star Resources.
Mineralized material does not represent reserves and has not been included in the Company's proven and probable reserve estimates because even though enough drilling and trenching indicate a sufficient amount and grade to warrant further exploration or development expenditures, these mineral deposits do not qualify under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission standards as being commercially minable until further drilling, metallurgical work and other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work are resolved.
Exploitation Authorization
During the fourth quarter 1999 and the first quarter 2000, Guyanor has granted the right to five small scale mining companies to apply for Exploitation Authorization on specific areas located within the Paul Isnard concessions and the Type A permit. The French government created this new type of mining title in connection with the recent revisions to the Mining Code. This new title, referred to as "AEX", grants to small-scale alluvial miners the right to mine within a specific area of 1 km/2/. The titleholder of an AEX is responsible for all potential environmental damages. The applications for AEX have been submitted to the DRIRE and if the applicants meet the DRIRE requirements, the AEX will be granted for a term of two years. Under separate agreements with each applicant, Guyanor will be entitled to receive as compensation a certain percentage of the value of the gold extracted.
DACHINE
The Dachine property is accessible only by helicopter or, during the rainy season, by canoe from Maripasoula. Microdiamonds were found for the first time in 1983 in alluvium/colluvium by BRGM during strategic prospecting work for the Mineral Inventory of French Guiana. No further exploration was conducted at Dachine until Guyanor, after examining the existing literature and conducting preliminary reconnaissance in the field, was granted a type "B" exploration permit by the French government covering a 25 km/2/ area in southwest French Guiana known as Dachine (formerly known as IT-33). An application was filed in December of 1995 for a type "A" permit covering an area of 337 km/2/ that would include the current type "B" permit. As of March 1, 2000, the type "A" permit has still not been granted.
Joint Venture with Rio Tinto
On June 9, 1999, Guyanor entered into a Heads of Agreement with Rio Tinto Mining and Exploration Limited ("Rio Tinto") with respect to the exploration and, if considered commercially feasible, the development and mining of diamonds within the whole territory of French Guiana excluding the St-Elie, Paul Isnard and Yaou-Dorlin properties (the "Area of Interest"). The Heads of Agreement gives Rio Tinto the right to earn a 70% participating interest in a Joint Venture between Guyanor and Rio Tinto. Rio Tinto shall be vested with a 70% participating interest in the Joint Venture by funding all exploration and evaluation work in the Area of Interest up to and including the earlier of the date on which: (i) the Board of directors of Rio Tinto resolves to commence the development and mining of diamonds within the Area of Interest, or (ii) Rio Tinto incurs at least $17 million in exploration work within the Area of Interest. Rio Tinto must earn its interest by June 9, 2009 or the agreement will terminate. Upon Rio Tinto earning its 70% participating interest in the joint venture, both parties will fund the joint venture in proportion to their participating interests.
To maintain its right to earn a 70% participating interest in the joint venture, Rio Tinto must spend at least $750,000 (the "Minimum Expenditures") within the Area of Interest by June 9, 2000 and at least $3.75 million by June 9, 2004. After incurring expenditures of US$3.75 million within the Area of Interest, Rio Tinto will have the right to excise from the joint venture any prospect within the Area of Interest that does not meet its criteria for further expenditures and it will be deemed to have earned a 51% interest in any such prospect. Rio Tinto will hold its 51% interest in any such prospects for a period of one year. After one year, Rio Tinto's 51% interest would revert back
to Guyanor and Rio Tinto would be entitled to retain a 0.3% net smelter royalty interest in any eventual diamond production that might be realized from the prospect.
Geology
The diamond occurrence at Dachine is hosted in a volcaniclastic komatiite - an unusual type of volcanic rock which differs from more well-known diamond host rocks such as kimberlite and lamproite. These komatiites once formed part of an island-arc sequence, a tectonic setting distinct from all other currently exploited diamond deposits.
Work Program
Work performed under the joint venture agreement included geologic mapping to better understand the limits of the deposit, grid loam (soil) sampling to better determine diamond distribution and limited trenching.
Access to the site was significantly improved following the mobilization of a bulldozer from the Dorlin project. A substantial bulk sample is being collected by excavating a trench through the central part of the deposit. Concentration of this bulk sample is being performed on site, followed by shipment of the concentrate for further testwork including caustic digestion to recover diamonds. Results from this testwork will not be available until mid 2000.
Regional geologic mapping has been intensified on similar geological units to determine the potential for locating additional sources of diamond.
In 1999, $0.8 million was spent on exploration and care and maintenance work for Dachine, of which $0.5 million was reimbursed by Rio Tinto. During 1998, $0.2 million was spent by Guyanor for the care and maintenance of the project.
ITEM 3.