ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
MAPS OF OPERATIONS AND PROPERTIES
The maps below show the locations of Bogoso, Prestea, Wassa, the Prestea Underground and Mampon in Ghana, and various exploration properties in Africa and South America. These properties are described in further detail below.
PROPERTY STATUS TABLE
The chart below summarizes information regarding certain of our properties, which are described in further detail below:
(1) Includes the Bondaye development stage property
(2) The Prestea Underground Joint Venture, which owns Prestea Underground, is owned 90% by BGL, our 90% owned subsidiary.
MINING IN GHANA
Ghanaian Ownership and Special Rights
Ghana is situated on the West Coast of Africa, approximately 600 kilometers north of the equator on the Gulf of Guinea. Accra, the capital city of Ghana, is located on the Prime Meridian. Following a period as a British colony, Ghana achieved independence in 1957 and it is now a republic with a democratically elected government. Ghana has a population of approximately 20.7 million people. English is the official and commercial language. The total land area of the country is approximately 238,000 square kilometers and the topography is relatively flat. Ghana has a tropical climate with two rainy seasons and two dry seasons each year.
Rights to explore and develop a mine are administered by the Minister of Mines through the Minerals Commission, a governmental organization designed to promote and control the development of Ghana’s mineral wealth in accordance with the mining law. A company or individual can apply to the Minerals Commission for a renewable exploration concession granting exclusive rights to explore for a particular mineral in a selected area for a period of two years subject to renewal. When exploration has successfully delineated a mineable mineral reserve, an application is made to the Minerals Commission for conversion to a mining lease, granting a company the right to produce a specific product from the concession area, normally for a period of 20 to 30 years. Production must typically begin within two years of the date of grant of a mining lease.
An amendment made to the mining law since 1994 requires that any person who intends to acquire a controlling share of the equity of any mining company that has been granted a mineral right by the Government of Ghana shall first give notice of such intention to the Government and obtain its consent prior to acquiring such controlling share. Consequently, any person who intends to acquire 20% or more of the total equity of BGL or WGL shall first seek the prior consent of the Government.
In accordance with the mining law, the Government of Ghana has a 10% carried interest in BGL and WGL, and is entitled to acquire up to an additional 20% interest in each of BGL and WGL. The carried interest entitles the Government of Ghana to a pro-rata share of future dividends (none have been declared to date), if any, from BGL and WGL once all capital is repaid, and the Government of Ghana has no obligation to contribute development or operating expenses. BGL and WGL owe $82.3 million and $86.6 million, respectively, to Golden Star or its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 for past advances and debts and such amounts would be repaid to us before payment of any dividends. If the Government of Ghana wishes to exercise its right to acquire an additional 20% interest, it must first give reasonable notice, and pay a mutually agreed price. If there is no agreement, the purchase price would be the fair market value of such interest at such time as determined by arbitration conducted by the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes or any similar international arbitration institution as may be mutually agreed to. The Government of Ghana could also acquire further interests in BGL and/or WGL on terms mutually acceptable to the Government and BGL or WGL. To date the Government has indicated no intent to obtain additional ownership in any of our properties.
The Government of Ghana is also entitled to acquire a special or golden share in BGL or WGL or any mining company at any time for no consideration or such consideration as the Government of Ghana and BGL or WGL might agree. The special share would constitute a separate class of shares with such rights as the Government of Ghana and BGL or WGL might agree. In the absence of such agreement, the special share would have the following rights:
• the special share would carry no voting rights, but the holder would be entitled to receive notice of and attend and speak at any general meeting of the members or any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares;
• the special share could only be issued to, held by, or transferred to the Government or a person acting on behalf of the Government;
• the written consent of the holder of the special share would be required for all amendments to the organizational documents of the company, the voluntary winding-up or liquidation of the company or the disposal of any mining lease or the whole or any material part of the assets of the company; and
• the holder of the special share would be entitled to the payment of a nominal sum of 1,000 Ghanaian Cedis in a winding-up or liquidation of the company in priority to any payment to other members and could require the company to redeem the special share at any time for a nominal sum of 1,000 Cedis.
BGL and WGL have not issued nor to date been requested to issue any such special share to the Government of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana has a pre-emptive right to purchase all gold and other minerals produced by BGL and WGL. The purchase price would be such price as the Government of Ghana and BGL and WGL might agree on, or the price established by any gold hedging arrangement between BGL or WGL and any third party approved by the Government, or the publicly quoted market price prevailing for the minerals or products as delivered at the mine or plant where the right of preemption was exercised. The Government of Ghana has agreed to take no preemptive action pursuant to its right to purchase such gold or other minerals so long as BGL and WGL sell gold in accordance with certain procedures approved by the Bank of Ghana.
The existing legal structure for mining in Ghana is currently under review to make it more competitive and bring it in line with international best practice. To this end a new mining bill was placed before the Ghanaian parliament in late 2004. It is expected that the bill will be considered by parliament and passed into law during 2005.
Ghanaian Royalty Requirements
Under the laws of Ghana, a holder of a mining lease is required to pay quarterly a royalty of not less than 3% per annum and not more than 12% per annum of the total revenues earned from the lease area. The Government of Ghana determines the royalty percentage each year based on the ratio that the operating margin bears to the value of gold produced from a mining lease in that year. Based on the Mineral Royalty Regulation of 1987, the royalty is 3% when the operating ratio is 30% or less, the royalty increases 0.225% for each 1% increase in operating ratio until the royalty reaches a maximum of 12% at an operating ratio of 70%. In 2004, 2003 and 2002 the royalty rate for BGL was 3% of revenues, and the amounts paid were $1.8 million, $1.9 million and $1.2 million, respectively. The royalty payments from BGL have not exceeded 3% per annum in any year.
Ghanaian Environmental Regulations
Golden Star acquired a 90% beneficial interest in the Bogoso mine in 1999 and has maintained continuous operations of the pits and the processing plant since that time. As required by environmental regulations, an environmental management plan (EMP) was prepared in 2000 and submitted to the EPA. The EMP was due for renewal in 2003, but with the interim acquisition of the Prestea property this renewal was deferred, and BGL technically became out of compliance with Ghanaian regulations. After discussions with the EPA, we decided to combine Bogoso and Prestea into a single EMP for the whole operation, as the consolidation of the Bogoso and Prestea properties in 2003 led to the opportunity for significant synergies in environmental management. Consequently a new EMP was submitted to the EPA in the third quarter of 2004. Acceptance of the EMP by the EPA will allow BGL to apply for an Environmental Certificate, which will bring the company back into full compliance with regulations. As an integral part of this process we are negotiating with the EPA regarding the posting of a reclamation bond for the combined Bogoso/Prestea properties, and it is expected that agreement on the bonding arrangements will be completed during second quarter of 2005. The environmental reclamation bonds for Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa are expected to be for approximately $9.0 million and $3.9 million respectively. We plan to fund these obligations with a combination of cash on hand and letters of credit. Wassa is fully permitted and in compliance with all environmental requirements.
BGL completed significant work during 1999 to identify the outstanding reclamation liabilities for Bogoso/Prestea and to prepare a rehabilitation work plan. Significant work has been performed during 2002, 2003 and 2004 to advance this plan and to reduce the outstanding historic reclamation liability. Expenditures for ongoing rehabilitation work, including the capping of sulfide material, backfilling of worked out pits, and the contouring and re-vegetation of waste dumps, were approximately $0.7 million, $0.8 million, and $0.5 million for 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. As at December 31, 2004 BGL had $3.3 million of restricted cash set aside for environmental reclamation of the Bogoso mine.
Community Development Programs and Sustainability
It is our policy and our intent to be a responsible corporate citizen of Ghana. We believe our success as an employer, as a citizen of the local community and as a participant in the local economy is dependent on achieving and maintaining good community relationships. As such, we strive to accommodate and support local efforts to improve the overall well being of the communities around our operations.
During 2004 we organized and funded a Community Relations department at BGL. The Community Relations department is charged with overseeing community assistance programs, alternative livelihood programs and with establishing effective and open communications with the local communities both at Bogoso/Prestea and at Wassa.
In mid-2001 we initiated an “Alternative Livelihood and Sustainable Development Program” (“ALSD”) in the Bogoso/Prestea area. During 2004 we expanded the program to Wassa. The goals of the program are to assist the communities in the vicinity of our mining operations to create alternative employment opportunities, promote growth of sustainable economic development and to reduce the community’s dependence on mining.
Given the importance of agriculture in the local economy, much of our efforts have been focused on agricultural opportunities. A demonstration farm has been established at one of the backfilled pits at Prestea where we now have a fish farm, a mulberry plantation and a silk production and processing facility. We added demonstration plots of citrus crops and ginger in 2004. Studies have shown that Chinese silk production has fallen in recent years, providing an opportunity for new supply centers, and the climate of western Ghana appears to be well suited to sericulture.
The farm facility is used for training and assistance to the 150 local farmers who have signed up to participate in the program. In addition, the farm is providing participants with seed stock and fish and silk worms for use on their own farms.
Working with local Ghanaian government agencies, we have encouraged formation of agricultural cooperatives, the first of which has recently obtained a plot of ground in the Prestea area to initiate a silk operation. We have also made contact with various non-governmental developmental groups in hopes of facilitating availability of micro-project financing for the Bogoso/Prestea communities.
The ALSD program was expanded in 2004 to provide assistance to a diverse range of community self-help groups including a women’s batik printing association and a dress-making school.
During 2005 we are investigating the feasibility of providing two new oil-palm/palm kernel processing facilities in the local area to more efficiently process the palm oil production already existing in the area. We also plan to test cultivate new cash crops such as mushrooms and other food sources for the local and regional markets.
In addition to the alternative livelihood projects, we are involved in the ongoing funding of several community assistance projects. We have provided funding and assistance for school improvements and equipment, libraries, a day care center, community centers, potable water systems, sports facilities and toilet facilities. We plan to spend approximately $1.0 million during 2005 to assist with electrification projects, potable water wells, library support, health facilities, road improvements and hospital equipment. The majority of this expenditure is in conformity with the provisions of existing permits and agreements with the communities involved regarding our access to mine certain areas.
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Bogoso/Prestea Gold Mine
Overview of the Bogoso/Prestea Operation
Bogoso/Prestea consists of a gold mining/processing operation located along the Ashanti Trend in western Ghana, approximately 35 kilometers northwest of the town of Tarkwa from which it can be reached by paved roads from Accra, the capital of Ghana. Bogoso and Prestea are adjoining mining concessions that together cover approximately 40 kilometers of strike of the southwest trending Ashanti Trend gold trend. The mining areas at Prestea are linked to the Bogoso processing plant by approximately 12 kilometers of paved and gravel haul-roads located on our properties. Equipment and facilities at Bogoso/Prestea include several open pit mines, a nominal
6,000 tonne per day CIL gold processing plant and a fleet of haul trucks, loaders and mining support equipment. In addition, there are numerous ancillary support facilities such as power and water supply equipment, haul roads, housing for management and technical staff, a medical clinic, tailings storage facility, waste dumps, warehouse, maintenance shops, offices and administrative facilities. The Bogoso/Prestea properties and mining rights are granted under four mining leases, which expire on or after August 2017.
Commercial mining at Bogoso dates back to the early years of the 20th century. During its 20-year period of operations from 1935 to 1955, production totaled over 900,000 ounces of gold at an average recovered grade of 3.73 g/t. Underground mining has been conducted at Prestea for more than 130 years. From 1873 to 1965, the current Prestea property was comprised of a number of different licenses operated by independent mining companies, which, in 1965, were amalgamated by the Government of Ghana into Prestea Goldfields Limited, under the aegis of the State Gold Mining Corporation.
Total gold production from the Prestea area since recorded mining commenced in the 1870s is reported by the Ghana Mineral Commission to be in excess of nine million ounces, making it the second largest historical gold producing area in Ghana, after the Obuasi mine.
Bogoso was acquired in 1999 and all of our production came from reserves located on the Bogoso concession until October 2001 when we commenced surface mining on the adjoining Prestea concession. The Prestea concession was acquired from Barnato Exploration Limited (“Barnex”) and Prestea Gold Resources Limited in mid-2001. Barnex retained a royalty interest in Prestea which we purchased from them in 2003 for $12.0 million.
Operating Results for Bogoso/Prestea
The following table displays historical operating results at Bogoso/Prestea.
(1) Gold production is shown on a 100% basis, which represents our current beneficial interest in gold production and revenues. Once all capital has been repaid, the Government of Ghana would receive 10% of the dividends from the subsidiaries owning the Bogoso/Preslea and Wassa mines.
We expect production in 2005 of 140,000 to 170,000 ounces of gold at a cash operating cost of between $190 and $210 per ounce.
Bogoso/Prestea Expansion Project
The known mineral reserves at Bogoso/Prestea can be grouped into two general ore categories based on the metallurgy of the ore and are known as non-refractory and refractory. Non-refractory ores can be processed through the Bogoso processing plant as currently configured. This category includes oxide ore, non-refractory sulfide ore and non-refractory transition ore. Refractory ores are classified as either sulfide or transition, and these ores cannot be successfully processed by the existing Bogoso plant without first pre-oxidizing the ore.
The oxide ores are found at surface, down to the general level of the water table, while refractory and non refractory sulfide ores are located at depth and between these two distinct zones lays the transition ore, a zone of partially oxidized ore. Bogoso/Prestea reserves at the end of 2004 are comprised of approximately 33% non-refractory ore and 67% refractory ore on a gold content basis. As a percentage of total Bogoso/Prestea reserves, the non-refractory ore can be categorized as 12% oxide ore, 19% non-refractory sulfide ores, and 3% transition ores. The refractory ore can be categorized as either 54% refractory sulfide ore or 12% refractory transition ore.
The existing Bogoso processing plant was configured to process primarily oxide ores, but in recent years additions to the processing plant equipment have made it possible to treat non-refractory transition ores and non-refractory sulfide ores. By mid-2004 most of the oxide ores within the current operational pits at Bogoso/Prestea had been processed and since that time all of the ore processed has been transition and non-refractory sulfide ores. Gold recovery from oxide ores was typically around 80% to 85% but when processing non-refractory transition and sulfide ores the recovery rate drops to approximately 60% to 65% due to the more complex chemical nature of the non-refractory ores.
To facilitate efficient processing of the refractory sulfide ore and certain of the more refractory transition ores, major modifications are required to the existing Bogoso processing plant. At its January 2005 meeting, our Board of Directors approved in principle the upgrading of the Bogoso plant to process 3.5 million tonnes per annum and the installation of a BIOX® circuit. The approval is subject to the formalization of the necessary environmental approvals which is expected in the second quarter of 2005. Construction of the BIOX® circuit is timed to coincide with the depletion of the remaining non-refractory ores at Prestea in the second half of 2006. We expect construction of the expanded processing plant and the BIOX® circuit to be completed in 2006 following an approximately 15 to 18 month construction period after which Bogoso would process refractory sulfide, transition and non-refractory sulfide ores from Bogoso.
Upon completion of the BIOX® upgrade, the Bogoso processing plant is expected to have a nominal capacity of 3.5 million tonnes per annum to process refractory ores from our Bogoso and northern Prestea pits, where we currently have proven and probable refractory reserves of approximately 20.5 million tonnes at an average grade of 2.81 grams per tonne. Gold production from the Bogoso processing plant, following the expansion and installation of the BIOX® circuit and the expansion of the mining fleet, is expected to average approximately 270,000 ounces per annum and to vary between 260,000 to 290,000 ounces per annum at an average cash operating cost between $250 to $270 per ounce after commercial production is achieved. We estimate the capital cost for the BIOX® upgrade at the Bogoso plant to fall between $80 and $85 million, excluding the $20 million cost to expand the existing mining fleet.
The BIOX® process is designed to treat refractory gold ores prior to cyanidization by utilizing naturally occurring bacteria capable of oxidizing gold-bearing sulfide concentrates under controlled conditions. Prior to the BIOX® processing, the ore will be crushed and ground utilizing existing equipment. A combination of flotation and gravity circuits, including circuits already in-place, will then separate a sulfide concentrate from the ore slurry with the gold locked in the matrix of the sulfide minerals. The bacteria used in the BIOX® process oxidize the sulfide minerals in the concentrate thereby liberating the gold particles which are then recovered by cyanidation. The bacteria used in the BIOX® process are non-pathogenic and pose no health risks.
The proprietary BIOX® process has been used to treat refractory gold ores and concentrates for over 18 years. A total of six BIOX® operations have been successfully commissioned since commercialization of the process of which four are still operating. Two new BIOX® plants are currently under construction, the Suzdal plant in Kazahstan and the Fosterville plant in Australia, which are scheduled for commissioning during 2005. Four additional BIOX® plants are now in various stages of development and are currently scheduled for commissioning during 2005 and 2006.
One of the larger bio-oxidation plants which were built by GRD Minproc in the mid-1990s, is located at AngloGold Ashanti’s Obuasi mine, which is also located on the Ashanti gold trend, 130 kilometers northeast of Bogoso/Prestea. We believe that the sulfide mineralization at Obuasi is similar to the Bogoso/Prestea material. Our metallurgical assessment of the suitability of the bio-oxidation process for Bogoso/Prestea ores has been a four-year project. The work has involved metallurgical assessments on some 32 samples representative of the current sulfide reserves, including a flotation, BIOX® and neutralization pilot plant program on a nine-tonne bulk sample compiled by the blending of approximately 90 diamond drill hole cores.
BIOX® bench and pilot scale tests on Bogoso sulfide ores have consistently yielded gold recoveries averaging in excess of 86% that vary between 78% and 88%. This compares to 55% achievable by direct cyanide treatment.
The Bogoso expansion plan outlined above is subject to the completion of technical studies now underway, subsequent final board approval, obtaining all requisite environmental permits and successful resolution of potential technical difficulties that could be encountered during the construction and start-up of the new facilities.
Geology at Bogoso/Prestea
The Bogoso/Prestea property lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield along a 40 kilometers stretch of the Ashanti Trend located immediately south of the town of Bogoso. The area is dominated by a major northeast-southwest trending structural fault zone referred to as the Ashanti Trend, which hosts the Prestea, Bogoso, Obuasi and Konongo gold deposits, among others. Parallel to the Ashanti Trend is the Akropong Trend, which hosts the Ayanfuri deposit. The Akropong Trend is about 15 kilometers west of the Ashanti Trend in the Bogoso region, and gradually converges with it, converging at Obuasi and forming the basis for the world class Obuasi deposit, owned and operated by AngloGold Ashanti Limited.
Mineral Reserves and Non-Reserve Mineral Resources at Bogoso/Prestea
Bogoso/Prestea has proven and probable mineral reserves of 30.9 million tonnes with a grade of 2.83 g/t containing approximately 2.81 million ounces of gold (before a reduction for the 10% minority interest). Total measured and indicated mineral resources total 33.9 million tonnes with a grade of 1.99 g/t before a reduction for the 10% minority interest. The current proven and probable mineral reserves should support mining operations for approximately ten years, although we expect the mine life to be extended as we continue to evaluate mineral resources through ongoing exploration efforts. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table and the Non-Reserves - Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource table in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Exploration at Bogoso/Prestea
Exploration activities on the Bogoso Property during 2004 concentrated on drilling beneath the previously mined open pits along a southern six kilometer portion of the Ashanti trend. The drilling had two purposes in that we were determining whether we had additional potential for economic unweathered mineralization beneath the old pits or whether we could back fill and rehabilitate them. The drilling was initiated from the southern boundary of the concession to the Main Chujah unweathered planned open pits. Past exploration in this area had concentrated on the weathered mineralization with limited drilling testing the unweathered mineralization potential. Drilling was conducted on 100 meter spaced fences and involved approximately 10,700 meters of RC drilling with diamond drill core tails and 800 meters of RAB drilling. Results of this drilling has indicated that approximately two kilometers of this trend in the southern most portion has not intersected significant gold grades and the pits in this area can be back filled and rehabilitated. The 2004 drilling has also indicated there are several areas where higher grade mineralization exists and further drilling will be required to confirm these zones. The new drilling has been incorporated into the drill hole database and will be used for the 2004 year end mineralized material and reserve estimates. Optimized pit shells created on the non - reserve portion of the estimate will be used to determine where additional drilling for 2005 will be conducted, areas where estimated grades support an optimized pit will be tested further to determine the viability of a minable reserve. Drilling for 2005 has also been planned to test for unweathered refractory mineralization north of the areas tested in 2004.
Surface exploration drilling on the Prestea property during 2004 focused on further delineation drilling at Tuappim, Bondaye, Beta Boundary and Buesichem. The Tuappim and Bondaye drilling tested the down dip and along strike extensions of these developing zones that were initially RAB drilled in 2003. Delineation drilling totaled approximately 3,400 meters of RAB and 23,500 meters of RC drilling with deeper holes having diamond core tails. Results of this drilling have confirmed the continuation of mineralization both along strike and down dip. The new drilling has been incorporated in the database and has been used for updating the mineralized material and reserves for the 2004 year end. Definition drilling on approximate 25 meter spacing is planned for the Bondaye and Tuappim targets during 2005.
During 2004, 25 meter spaced infill drilling was initiated over the Beta Boundary resource focusing on the proposed southern pit area. In order to determine the continuity of mineralization between the old underground mining areas
and the bottom of planned open pits at Beta Boundary we drilled below these proposed pits. This deeper drilling indicates that the zones of mineralization below the proposed pits are narrowing or have been partially exploited by historical under ground mining. Infill drilling in the areas of the proposed pits has confirmed the zones previously interpreted, however several zones have been depleted by the illegal mining activity. The areas of illegal mining activity have been surveyed and these areas will be removed from the mineralized material and reserve estimates for the 2004 year end statement. Drilling at Beta Boundary totaled approximately 8,300 meters during 2004. Drilling at the northern Beta Boundary pit has been hindered by the illegal miners operating in the area. We are currently conferring with the government on a plan to remove the illegal miners and will initiate the infill drilling of the Northern Beta Boundary pits when they have been removed.
Buesichem exploration during 2004 involved infill drilling to collect additional samples for metallurgical sampling as well as infill drilling to a nominal 25 meter spacing. This drilling confirmed the mineralization previously tested but did show that grades and thickness of the mineralized zones does vary between the existing drill holes. Deeper drilling conducted in the central part of the Buesichem deposit showed that grades tended to increase slightly at depth. If the optimized pits using the non - reserve (Inferred resources) indicate this deeper, higher grade mineralization is economic then further drilling at depth will be required in 2005. Drilling completed in 2004 involved 33 diamond drill holes totaling 4,700 meters of core.
A magnetic and radiomagnetic helicopter-borne geophysical survey was carried out over the Bogoso/Prestea and Akropong concessions. The survey was flown at 50m line spacing using a horizontal gradient array and totalled 9,000 line km for a cost of $0.2 million. The Bogoso/Prestea survey encompassed 5,500 line km while the Akropong area was flown with 3,500 line km. The Bogoso/Prestea survey has led to a better definition of the underlying geology in particular the Birimian - Tarkwaian boundary. Due to it’s high resolution subtle features such as potential alteration halos have become apparent. Additional data gained from this survey which will aid the company in the long run are radiometrics and a detailed DTM.
DEVELOPMENT STAGE PROJECTS
The Wassa Gold Mine
Overview of the Wassa Gold Mine
The Wassa gold mine was initially developed in the late 1990s by a consortium of European mining companies and consisted of an open pit mine and a conventional heap leach operation. While operating as a heap leach property, Wassa produced approximately 90,000 ounces of gold per annum for a period of just over two years beginning in 1999 and ending in mid-2001.
In September 2002 our 90% owned subsidiary WGL acquired the Wassa gold property located 35 kilometers east of our Bogoso/Prestea gold operations in Ghana. As with Bogoso/Prestea, the Government of Ghana holds a 10% carried interest and is not required to contribute any development capital. Any future dividends (none have been declared to date) would be split 90% and 10% between us and the Government of Ghana, respectively. Dividend payments would not be made until WGL has repaid all capital.
Immediately following acquisition we began a drilling program and engineering studies designed to evaluate the economic viability of the property as a conventional 10,000 tonne per day CIL gold operation. Based on initial drill results and engineering data, a feasibility study was begun shortly after acquisition and was completed in July 2003. In July 2003 we announced that the project would proceed and construction of the CIL processing plant would commence immediately. The feasibility study was prepared by our staff supported by a team of independent consultants led by Metallurgical Design and Management (Pty) Ltd. (“MDM”) of South Africa. In July 2003 we also awarded a fixed-price contract to MDM to construct the new CIL plant and associated processing facilities.
While we experienced significant construction delays during 2004, the construction phase of the Wassa project was substantially complete by December 31, 2004 except for the power line which is now under construction and which we expect to complete by mid-year 2005. Following discussions in November 2004, our contract with MDM was terminated on November 29, 2004. All of the required power line permits have been obtained, and all of the material power line construction equipment has been delivered and staged for construction or is on order. While the power line is still under construction, the existing
powerhouse at Wassa should generate all of the power needed to fully operate the plant and associated facilities until the connection to the local power grid is completed.
As of December 31, 2004 acquisition and development costs totaled $66.5 million including feasibility study costs, development drilling and geology, operating equipment and plant and site construction costs. The remaining project costs at December 31, 2004 are estimated to be $7.0 million, consisting of $5.0 million for completion of the power line and $2.0 million for completion of miscellaneous items at the plant site. An additional $14 million is also budgeted in 2005 for purchase of additional mining equipment. During 2004 while testing and commissioning the mine we poured 5,292 ounces of gold resulting in $2.3 million of preproduction revenues which were credited against mine development costs.
Our 2005 mining plan involves processing most of the heap leach material left on the pads by the former owner which will furnish a low cost ore feed to the new plant during its first year of operations and will also clear the pad area for use as a tailings dam site. Mining will be performed initially using a mixture of equipment transferred from Bogoso/Prestea and contract equipment until new equipment is procured. During 2005 we anticipate feeding the Wassa plant with approximately 45% heap leach material and 55% open pit ore. Recoveries are expected to average between 87% and 90% with recoveries from heap leach material and open pit ore ranging from 80% to 90% and 83% to 95%, respectively. During 2005 we expect to produce between 100,000 and 120,000 ounces of gold at Wassa at an average cash operating cost between $280 and $300 per ounce. We expect production costs to be higher than this in the first half of 2005 due to the higher costs of operating the power house. In the second half of 2005 cash operating costs are expected to fall by $50 to $80 per ounce following completion of the power line and the acquisition of new mining equipment. After 2005 we expect annual gold production to exceed 140,000 ounces per year, at an average cash operating cost of between $200 and $220 per ounce.
Geology at Wassa
Wassa lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield. The proterozoic rocks that comprise most of the West African craton and host the major gold mineralization in Ghana are subdivided into metasedimentary and volcanic rocks of the Birimian and Tarkwaian sequences.
Wassa is hosted within the same Birimian volcano-sedimentary greenstone package as Bogoso/Prestea. Wassa is situated on the southeastern limb of the Tarkwa Syncline while Bogoso and Prestea occur along the northwestern limb. The northwestern belt hosts the Obuasi, Prestea, and Bogoso gold mines but the southeastern limb also is characterized by gold mines and mineral occurrences. Tarkwaian hosted deposits along the south eastern limb include Goldfield’s Tarkwa and Abosso mines, while Birimian hosted gold occurrences include St. Jude’s Hwini-Butre property and Wassa.
Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources at Wassa
Wassa has a probable mineral reserve of 19.3 million tonnes with a grade of 1.31 g/t containing approximately 0.81 million ounces of gold before the reduction for the 10% minority interest. Total indicated mineral resources consist of 1.7 million tonnes with a grade of approximately 2.44 g/t before a reduction for the 10% minority interest. The current mineral reserves should support mining operations for approximately five years at planned mining rates. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table and the Non-Reserves - Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource table in Item 1 of this 10-K.
Exploration at Wassa
Exploration activities at Wassa during 2004 concentrated on completion of in-fill drilling of inferred mineral resources. Drilling results indicated that the mineralized corridors continue at depth with variable grade as has been observed closer to surface. The new drilling results have been incorporated into the database and will be used for the estimation of the Wassa mineralized materials and reserves.
Grass roots exploration activities during 2004 concentrated on further delineation of the two mineralized corridors extending southwest from the known gold mineralization. Gold in soil geochemical anomalies in the southern portion of the mining lease are located in the Subri Forest Reserve. We were successful in obtaining the appropriate
government permits and permissions for conducting exploration within the forest reserve this year and we progressed with deep auger drilling which outlined several anomalies.
A high resolution helicopter borne geophysical survey was carried out over the Wassa mining lease and surrounding prospecting and reconnaissance licenses. We identified several exploration targets which were prioritized on the basis of coincidental geophysical and geochemical anomalies as well as favorable geological characteristics. We initiated follow up of these targets in the last quarter of 2004 and have planned soil geochemistry and RAB drilling programs to test these further in 2005.
The 2005 exploration programs will involve; infill RC drilling along the strike extents of the known mineralized zones in proximity to the planned open pits; RAB drilling of geophysical and geochemistry targets delineated south of the mining area; and initial target testing of geophysical targets delineated on the surrounding mineral leases around the Wassa mining lease.
Bondaye Project
In addition to the BIOX® expansion described above, we are in the process of investigating the addition of a second processing plant at Bogoso/Prestea to process oxide, non-refractory sulfide and transition ores from the southern areas of the Prestea property. In July 2003 we purchased a used 4,500 tonne per day conventional CIL processing plant, associated stores inventory, and a six-megawatt powerhouse from an inactive mine site in Ghana. This facility was dismantled in during 2003 and the plant was moved to Prestea in 2004 where it was refurbished. The power plant is currently being used at Wassa. With the appropriate modifications the plant should be able to process oxide, non-refractory sulfide and transition ores found at Prestea.
This project is referred to as the Bondaye project. We had originally planned to begin development of this new operation during 2005, but unanticipated delays in obtaining necessary environmental permits and the impact of the socio-economic aspects of the project have now led to a review of the optimal plant location. We plan to continue the evaluation of the potential of this expansion option during 2005.
The Mampon Project (See also Dunkwa Properties)
The Mampon project, which is located within the Dunkwa properties, is approximately 35 kilometers north of the Bogoso plant. It was acquired in 2003, as part of the Dunkwa property acquisition. An analysis of the drilling and other geologic data provided by the former owner allowed us to establish a probable reserve at the Mampon property of approximately 1.0 million tonnes grading 5.16 grams per tonne or approximately 160,000 ounces of gold as of year-end 2004 which is accessible by open pit mining methods. These reserve estimates were determined in accordance with the policies and procedures set forth in the reserves section. The geology of the Mampon deposit is similar to the geology at Bogoso/Prestea. Our current plan is to haul the Mampon ore by truck to the Bogoso plant to supplement ores from the Bogoso/Prestea deposits.
EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN GHANA
The following is a summary of 2004 activity at each of the major exploration projects.
Prestea Underground (81% Golden Star)
Overview
The Prestea Underground is an inactive underground gold operation located directly beneath our Prestea property consisting of several shafts and extensive underground workings and support facilities. Support facilities include an administrative office, maintenance shops, a warehouse and electrical substations. Access to the mine site is via a paved road maintained by the Government of Ghana. Any potential future production from the Prestea Underground would most likely be trucked to the Bogoso processing plant for processing.
The Prestea Underground has produced approximately nine million ounces of gold during the last 100 years, the second highest production of any mine in Ghana. The underground workings are extensive, reaching depths of approximately 1,400 meters and extending along a strike length of approximately ten kilometers. Underground workings can currently be accessed via two shafts, one near the town of Prestea and a second approximately four
kilometers to the southwest. Underground operation sceased in early 2002, following an extended period of low gold prices. In March 2002 our subsidiary BGL entered in to a joint venture agreement with the former owners to further explore and evaluate the remaining potential of the underground operations.
In late 2003, our partner in the Prestea Underground joint venture filed for bankruptcy in Ghana. This event resulted in our partner relinquishing its rights under the joint venture agreement and the transfer of the partner’s remaining ownership position to our subsidiary, Bogoso Gold Limited, (“BGL”), thereby giving BGL a 90% ownership in the Prestea Underground. The Government of Ghana continues to hold a 10% ownership in Prestea Underground as well as its 10% holding in BGL, resulting in an 81% beneficial ownership by Golden Star.
Geology of Prestea Underground
The Prestea deposits are found along the Ashanti Trend which extends over 220 kilometers and which accounts for 80% to 90% of the total quartz lode-hosted gold extracted in Ghana. Other mines located along the same shear are our Bogoso pits, and the Obuasi and Konongo mines owned by others.
Two types of gold hosts have historically been recognized at Prestea: fault-related hydrothermal quartz veins; and disseminated sulfide-hosted gold mineralization associated with metavolcanic pods; the first type of ore was the focus of intense mining during Prestea’s past production. We intend to evaluate both types of mineralization.
Mineral Resources at Prestea Underground
As of December 31, 2004 total inferred mineral resources consist of 1.6 million tonnes with a grade of 8.58 g/t before a reduction for the 19% minority interest.
Exploration Activities at Prestea Underground
Underground exploration drilling was hampered late in 2004 by a higher than usual influx of water from surface, the result of a higher than average rainfall during the third quarter, and galamsey mining activities exacerbated the situation. Despite this we were able to continue testing the down-dip extensions of the West Reef confirming that the structure continues below the last drilled intersections with grades ranging from one to 12 grams gold per tonne over approximately one meter widths.
Other drilling identified narrow zones of mineralization down-dip of the mined-out Main Reef. Historical mining has not exploited the Main Reef between levels 17 and 24 in this area and the recent drill results indicate the potential for additional resources. Further drilling is budgeted for 2005.
A deep surface hole was initiated during 2004 to test the down plunge extension of the high grade mineralization below the Bondaye Main shoot. Drilling problems late in the year have delayed completion of the hole. The depth of the hole at the end of the year was just over 1,300 meters. The estimated depth to intersect the projected target is between 1,500 and 1,600 meters, approximately 200 to 250 meters below the lowest underground mining in this area. We now expect to reach the target zone in early 2005. Several daughter holes are planned off the initial hole, once it is completed, to test the structure along strike.
Spending at the Prestea Underground project totaled $7.1 million in 2004 and $3.7 million during 2003, including facility maintenance, engineering, drilling, geologic activities and equipment purchases. Support crews continue to maintain the underground and surface facilities in good working order and assist our underground drilling teams.
Prestea Underground exploration programs in 2005 will continue the programs begun in 2004.
Akropong Trend Properties
During 2004 we continued working on the Akropong Trend properties located approximately 10 to 20 kilometers to the west of the Bogoso/Prestea. The objective of this work was to identify additional mineral reserve opportunities in the immediate vicinity of Bogoso/Prestea that could, in the future, provide additional sources of processing plant feed for the Bogoso or planned Bondaye processing plants. All the Akropong Trend projects are at an early stage of exploration and to date they do not have, and ultimately might not have, proven and probable mineral reserves.
We spent approximately $0.4 million on Akropong projects during 2004 compared to $1.0 million in 2003. Most of the Akropong spending was related to RAB and RC drilling. While property access issues slowed down the 2004 efforts most of these were resolved by the end of the year and we plan to continue with solid sampling and drilling of more promising areas in 2005.
Dunkwa Properties (including Mampon)
Overview of the Dunkwa Properties
In 2003 we purchased two prospecting licenses, Asikuma and Mansiso, along the Ashanti Trend from Birim Goldfields Inc., which we refer to as the Dunkwa properties. These properties cover 45 kilometers of strike along the Ashanti Trend directly north of and contiguous with the current Bogoso concession. It is accessible by Ghanaian public roads. The addition of the Asikuma and Mansiso prospecting licenses, which cover 56 and 69 square kilometers, respectively, increases our property holdings along the trend to over 100 kilometers in length. In 2003 we also acquired from Ashanti Goldfields Company Limited the rights to the Mampon prospect located on the Asikuma license. Ore from Mampon is expected to be trucked to the Bogoso processing plant after 2005.
The Mampon prospect was discovered in 1988 using regional geochemical methods and consists of narrow quartz veins with strong pyrite and arsenopyrite mineralization in the wall rocks ranging up to 15% total sulfides. These prospects are also associated with shearing and/or graphitic faults, similar to those seen at Bogoso. There are five known gold prospects on the Dunkwa concession. All of these occur in the same approximate stratigraphic position within Lower Birimian sediments from 1 to 1.5 kilometers west of the contact with the Birimian metavolcanics.
Exploration Activities at the Dunkwa Properties
Exploration activities were minimal at Dunkwa during 2004 but exploration plans for 2005 include drilling over the known occurrences as well as follow up drilling of any new targets generated. We also plan to drill an unexplored nine kilometer section of the property covered by Opon river valley sediments. We expect to spend approximately $1.0 million on exploration activities at Dunkwa during 2005.
Other Active Properties in Africa
Mininko, Mali (may earn up to 82.5% interest)
In 2003 we entered into a joint venture to explore the 250 square kilometer Mininko area of Mali in West Africa. Drilling in late 2003 and 2004 identified a broad zone of low grade gold mineralization along an 800 meter trend at the Nampala prospect but subsequent analysis of the data indicated the gold mineralization to be sub-economic given the relatively limited resource base. Work on the Mininko license was suspended in late 2004. The joint venture agreement with our partner at Mininko was renegotiated and the partner has now turned attention to regional soil sampling on two new licenses which are contiguous with the Mininko license, seeking additional resources that could be added to the Nampala resource. Subject to agreement to modify the terms of the joint venture agreement, we expect to spend approximately $0.4 million on this work in 2005.
Mano River Joint Venture, Sierra Leone (may earn up to 85% interest)
In late 2003 we entered into a joint venture agreement with Mano River Resources Inc., which holds several gold prospects in Sierra Leone totaling approximately 700 square kilometers. A diamond core drilling program commenced in mid-March at the Yirisen prospect on the North Pampana license, and 26 holes were completed. Grades and gold mineralization proved to be variable and discontinuous. Due to the prospective nature of the local area, as evidenced by numerous artisanal workings and favorable geology, a wide-area surface sampling program was initiated in late 2004 which will continue into 2005. Any additional drilling in 2005 will depend on the results of the surface sampling project. If good targets are generated, we have budgeted up to $1.7 million for drilling during 2005.
Moto Goldmines Investment
In October 2004 we acquired a 9.5% equity interest in Moto Goldmines Limited (“Moto”) for $4.1 million and became Moto’s single largest shareholder. In addition to the common shares, we received warrants, which if exercised will raise our interest to 13.3%. At Moto’s annual general meeting in November 2004, shareholders elected Dr. Doug Jones, Golden Star’s Vice President, Exploration, as a director.
Moto controls the approximate 4,700 square kilometer Moto concessions located in the north east of the Democratic Republic of Congo. The Moto concessions form part of the Kilo-Moto gold belt which has historical production in excess of 11 million ounces with over two million ounces mined from ten small mines within the central 35 square kilometers on the Moto concessions. After securing control of the property in late 2003, Moto began a drilling program in February 2004 to confirm and expand the gold resource around the areas previously mined. Based upon this work Moto’s independent resource consultants have estimated an indicated resource of 7 million tonnes grading 2.7 grams per tonne and inferred resources of 36 million tonnes grading 3.2 grams per tonne.
During 2005 Moto plans to use the funds provided by our share purchase, along with other funding, for further exploration and development at the Moto concessions included additional drilling of the known targets and regional soil sampling and a pre-feasibility study.
THE SOUTH AMERICAN PROPERTIES
We hold one exploration property in Suriname known as the Saramacca property, and we currently hold two properties in French Guiana. The Paul Isnard property is held through Guyanor, our 53% owned subsidiary. A new 100% owned subsidiary, also located in French Guiana, known as Golden Star Ressources Minière S.A.R.L. (“GSRM”) holds exploration permits for the Bon Espoir property located near Guyanor’s Paul Isnard property. Guyanor’s Yaou and Dorlin properties in French Guiana were sold late in 2004. A total of $0.75 million was spent on the French Guiana properties during 2004, all related to acquisition of the properties or for care and maintenance.
Saramacca Property
The Saramacca property is located in Suriname and is owned 100% by Golden Star. Two successive soil auger sampling programs were completed in late 2003 and early 2004 to evaluate a series of stream sediment gold anomalies. Field work through 2003 established an 18 kilometer long by 4 to 7 kilometer wide auger grid, with 154 kilometers of cut lines. Additional augering during 2004 focused on a 5 kilometer long soil anomaly forming a series of enechelon zones of gold mineralization. The deep augering in 2004 confirmed the anomaly with a 200 parts per billion contour extending for some 2,500 meters northwest-southeast and a 300 parts per billion contour extending over 1,600 meters with widths of 150 to 300 meters. Individual spot values ranged up to 100 grams per tonne. Trenching and diamond core drilling is planned for 2005 and we have budgeted approximately $0.3 million for the project. Approximately $0.2 million of direct field related costs were spent in each of the 2004 and 2003 field programs.
Bon Espoir Property Acquisition
In October 2004 we acquired a 100% interest in the 466 square kilometer Bon Espoir exploration property in French Guiana from Gold Fields Exploration B.V. for a purchase price of $0.3 million paid in common shares of Golden Star plus $0.1 million in transaction costs. The Bon Espoir property is located north of our Paul Isnard Property in a geological setting interpreted by us as having many similarities to the Ashanti Trend area of Ghana including a sheared contact between sediments and volcanic formations.
The area is covered by the Bon Espoir exclusive exploration permit, dated October 24, 2001 and valid until October 31, 2006. This permit covers an area of 466 square kilometers. Our plan for 2005 includes a $0.75 million budget to conduct regional soil sampling along much of the 40 kilometer long sediment-volcanic contact shear zone.
Paul Isnard Property
The Paul Isnard property is located in the western part of French Guiana, approximately 180 kilometers west of Cayenne. The Paul-Isnard exploration permit covers an area of 283 square kilometers, and we are waiting for the
granting of its first renewal for a reduced surface area. Paul Isnard remained on care and maintenance during 2004 and total maintenance costs incurred were less than $0.1 million. An additional $0.2 million of acquisition costs were incurred.
In conjunction with the Guyanor restructuring plan, Golden Star acquired the right to earn-in to the Paul Isnard property by spending certain amounts performing exploration work on the property. Provisions of the agreement allow Golden Star to eventually earn up to a 100% ownership position in the property. Also in 2004 as part of the earn-in agreement, Golden Star acquired the Guiana Shield geologic data base from Guyanor for $6 million, which was paid by reducing the inter-company loan balance Guyanor owed Golden Star by a similar amount.
During 2005 we plan to review past exploration results at Paul Isnard and the surrounding areas and possibly commence limited exploration of any targets identified by the review. A budget of $0.15 million has been set for this work.
ITEM 3.