ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
MAPS OF OPERATIONS AND PROPERTIES
The maps below show the locations of Bogoso, Prestea, Wassa, Pampe, the Hwini-Butre, Benso and Mampon in Ghana, and various exploration properties in other areas of West Africa and Brazil. These properties are described in further detail below.
PROPERTY STATUS TABLE
The chart below summarizes information regarding our more significant properties, which are described in further detail below:
License renewal requests were filed with the Ghana Mineral Commission prior to the license expiry dates for all properties shown as expired in the table above above. We remain in frequent contact with the Mineral Commission and expect to receive all permits upon completion of administrative processing.
MINING IN GHANA
Ghanaian Ownership and Special Rights
Ghana is situated on the west coast of Africa, approximately 600 km north of the Equator on the Gulf of Guinea. Accra, the capital city of Ghana, is located almost exactly on the Prime Meridian. The former British colony changed its name from the Gold Coast to Ghana on achieving independence on March 6, 1957. Ghana is now a republic with a population of approximately 23 million people and a democratically elected government. English remains the official and commercial language.
The total land area of the country is approximately 238,000 square kilometers and the topography is relatively flat. Ghana has a tropical climate with two rainy seasons and two dry seasons each year. The natural vegetation in the Western Region where Golden Star Resources has its two operations is moist tropical forest, now found only in forest reserves, with a majority of the land converted to agricultural pursuits.
Rights to explore and develop a mine are administered by the Minister of Lands and Natural Resources, through the Minerals Commission, a governmental organization designed to promote and regulate the development of Ghana's mineral wealth in accordance with the Minerals and Mining Act of 2006 (Act 703), which came into effect in March 2006 (“2006 Mining Act”).
A company or individual can apply to the Minerals Commission for a renewable exploration license granting exclusive rights to explore for a particular mineral in a selected area for an initial period not exceeding three years. When exploration has successfully delineated a Mineral Reserve, an application may be made to the Minerals Commission for conversion to a mining lease, granting a company the right to produce a specific product from the concession area, normally for a period of 20 to 30 years or a lesser period that may be agreed upon with the applicant.
The 2006 Mining Act requires that any person who intends to acquire a controlling share of the equity of any mining company that has been granted a mining lease, must first give notice of its intent to the Government and also obtain its consent prior to
acquiring a controlling share.
Under the 2006 Mining Act, the Government of Ghana holds a 10% free-carried interest in all companies that hold mining leases. The 10% free-carried interest entitles the Government to a pro-rata share of future dividends. The Government has no obligation to contribute development capital or operating expenses. GSBPL and GSWL owe $480.0 million and $85.0 million, respectively, to Golden Star or its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011, for past advances and interest on these advances, and these amounts would be repaid before payment of any dividends to the government.
Under the 2006 Mining Act, the Government of Ghana is empowered to acquire a special or golden share in any mining company. The special share would constitute a separate class of shares with such rights as the Government and the mining company might agree. Though deemed a preference share, it could be redeemed without any consideration or for a consideration determined by the mining company and payable to the holder on behalf of the Government of Ghana.
In the absence of such agreement, the special share would have the following rights:
•
it would carry no voting rights but the holder would be entitled to receive notice of, and to attend and speak at, any general meeting of the members or any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares;
•
it could only be issued to, held by, or transferred to the Government or a person acting on behalf of the Government;
•
the written consent of the holder would be required for all amendments to the organizational documents of the company, the voluntary winding-up or liquidation of the company, or the disposal of any mining lease, or the whole or any material part of the assets of the company;
•
it would not confer a right to participate in the dividends, profits or assets of the company or a return of assets in a winding up or liquidation of the company; and
•
the holder of a special share may require the company to redeem the special share at any time for no consideration or for a consideration determined by the company.
GSBPL and GSWL have not issued, nor to date been requested to issue, a special share to the Government of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana has a pre-emptive right to purchase all gold and other minerals produced by mines in Ghana. The purchase price would be agreed by the Government of Ghana and the mining company, or the price established by any gold hedging arrangement between the company and any third party approved by the Government, or the publicly quoted market price prevailing for the minerals or products as delivered at the mine or plant where the right of preemption was exercised. The Government of Ghana has agreed to take no preemptive action pursuant to its right to purchase gold or other minerals so long as mining companies sell gold in accordance with certain procedures approved by the Bank of Ghana.
Ghanaian Royalty Requirements
During the first quarter of 2010, the Government of Ghana amended the 2006 Mining Act to change the method of calculating mineral royalties payable to the Government. The prior rules established a royalty rate of not less than 3% and not more than 6% of a mine's total revenues, the exact amount being determined by each mine's margin as defined in the law. Under the old rules, our mines have, since their inception, qualified for, and paid, a 3% rate. The amended law set the royalty at a flat rate of 5% of mineral revenues. While the new law was initially effective as of as March 19, 2010, we were subsequently notified by the government that the effective date was extended to March 31, 2011. We paid royalties of $21.3 million, $13.1 million and $12.8 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
Ghana Corporate Tax Requirements
In late 2011, the Government of Ghana proposed a number of changes to the mining fiscal regime for 2012, which if implemented, will likely result in an increase in corporate tax payable by mining companies in Ghana. The Government indicated that in 2012 the corporate income tax rate will increase from 25% to 35% for mining companies, and capital allowances (tax depreciation) will be deductible at a flat rate of 20% over a five year period instead of an 80% deduction in the year that the capital spending was incurred. The Government further proposed to disallow expenditures from one mining area as a deduction from revenues in a separate mining area belonging to the same company in determining the company's taxable income for tax purposes. The Government also announced its intent to introduce a 10% windfall profit tax on mining companies in 2012. The details of these tax changes have not been made available and we are thus not able to determine the impact of these new taxes on our operations at this time. Moreover, the Ghana Government announced in late 2011 that it intends to establish a tax stability renegotiation team which plans to review the existing tax stability agreements of mining companies operating in Ghana. While our mines do not have tax stability agreements, it is not clear at this time if the tax stability renegotiation team will review our Deeds of Warranty which specify certain tax agreements for our properties.
Environmental Laws and Regulations
Environmental matters in Ghana, including those related to mining, fall under the oversight of the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), with some responsibilities lying with the Minerals Commission. The EPA has rules and guidelines that govern environmental and socioeconomic impact statements, environmental management plans, mine operations, the quality of water discharges to the environment, environmental auditing and review, and mine closure and reclamation, among other matters to which our operations are subject. Additional provisions governing surface uses by our stakeholders are provided in the 2006 Mining Act, but regulations for the implementation of these provisions have yet to be promulgated.
In the various jurisdictions where we operate, all phases of our exploration, project development, and operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may define, among other things, air and water quality standards, waste management requirements, and closure and rehabilitation obligations. In general, environmental legislation is evolving to require more strict operating standards, more detailed socioeconomic and environmental impact assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of accountability for companies and their officers, directors, and employees for corporate social responsibility, and health and safety. Changes in environmental regulations, and the way they are interpreted by the regulatory authorities, could affect the way we operate, resulting in higher environmental and social operating costs that may affect the viability of our operations.
We note a continuing trend toward substantially increasing environmental requirements and greater corporate social responsibility expectations in Ghana. This includes requirements for more permits, analysis, data gathering, community hearings and negotiations than have been required typically in the past for both routine operational needs and for new development projects. The trend to longer lead times in obtaining environmental permits has reached a point where we are no longer able to accurately estimate permitting times for our planning purposes. The increases in permitting requirements could affect our environmental management activities including, but not limited to, tailings disposal facilities and water management projects at our mines.
Our mining, processing, development, and mineral exploration activities are subject to various laws governing prospecting, development, production, taxes, labor standards, occupational health and safety, land claims of local people and other matters. New rules and regulations may be enacted or existing rules and regulations may be modified and applied in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.
We use hazardous chemicals in our gold recovery activities, and thus generate environmental contaminants that may adversely affect air and water quality. To mitigate these effects, we have established objectives to achieve regulatory requirements in all of our exploration, development, operation, closure, and post-closure activities so that our employees, the local environment, and our stakeholder communities are protected and that the post-closure land use contributes to the sustainability of the local economy. In order to meet our objectives, we:
•
Educate our managers so that they are committed to creating a culture that makes social and environmental matters an integral part of short-term and long-term operations and performance management systems;
•
Work with our employees so they understand and accept environmental and social policies and procedures as a fundamental part of the business;
•
Signed and implemented the international cyanide management code and attained certification for the Wassa and Bogoso / Prestea operations;
•
Signed and publicly stated our support for the UN Global Compact and completed our commitments that are provided in our communications on progress;
•
Establish, and continue to improve, operating standards and procedures that aim to meet or exceed requirements in relevant laws and regulations, the commitments made in our environmental impact statements, environmental and socioeconomic management plans, rehabilitation and closure plans, and any international protocols to which we are a signatory;
•
Incorporated environmental and human rights performance requirements into all relevant contracts;
•
Provide training to employees and contractors in environmental matters;
•
Regularly prepare, review, update and implement site-specific environmental management and rehabilitation and closure plans;
•
Work to progressively rehabilitate disturbed areas in conformance with the site-specific environmental management and rehabilitation and closure plans;
•
Consult local communities and regulators to provide us with input on our environmental management policies and procedures;
•
Regularly review our environmental performance; and
•
Publicly report our social, health, safety, and environmental performance.
Governmental approvals and permits are currently required, and will likely continue to be required in the future, in connection with our ongoing operations and our development activities. To the extent that such approvals are required and not obtained, we could be limited or prohibited from continuing our mining and processing operations, or from proceeding with planned exploration or the development of mineral properties.
Reclamation activities were ongoing at both Wassa/HBB and Bogoso/Prestea during 2011 to rehabilitate disturbed lands and reduce some of the long-term liabilities including re-profiling waste dumps, capping hard rock with oxide materials, topsoil spreading and planting for both slope stabilization and long-term rehabilitation. Our consolidated reclamation expenditures totaled $26.9 million, $9.7 million, and $2.0 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. The large increase in 2011 spending reflects backfilling of the Plant North Pit. We believe all our operations in Ghana are currently in substantial compliance with all environmental requirements.
Corporate Social Responsibility
In keeping with our health and safety, environmental, community relations and human rights policies, we strive at all times to conduct our business as a responsible corporate citizen. We believe our ongoing success in Ghana depends on our continuing efforts to build good relations with our local stakeholder communities, and by reviewing broader stakeholder comments and addressing stakeholder concerns in our developing projects and ongoing operational activities. We believe our success as an employer, as a neighbor, and as an important part of the local economy is furthered by contributing to the diversification of the local economy with initiatives such as our Golden Star Oil Palm Project and by our support of community-driven improvement projects through our Golden Star Development Foundation. During 2011, the Development Foundation worked with our local Community Mine Consultation Committees to fund and sponsor several community-driven projects including schools, public toilets, a community centre, continuing scholarships for local students, supplying of medical advice in partnership with a European aid organization (GIZ) and community electrification projects.
Our Oil Palm Project continued to advance during 2011 and now has 790 hectares of palm oil trees under cultivation with fruit production on the increase. We have also provided palm seedlings and other agricultural assistance to a group of local farmers who are developing an additional 140 hectares of palm oil trees on their own farms. GSR also supports a skills training program for stakeholders aimed at local economic development. The Golden Star Skills Training and Employability Program (GSSTEP) provides practical training for local people in construction and in high tech services such as cell phone repair. We currently have about 140 graduates who are now able to provide skilled services.
In our efforts to promote transparency in governance, we continue to work with the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative, and throughout 2011 we published our payments to the government of Ghana (e.g. taxes, royalties, fees). We furthered our work in human rights and against child and forced labor with an extensive training program within Golden Star and initiated a program of training on anti-discrimination. Our major suppliers were provided with the training materials to allow them to provide training to their staff.
Our commitment to the development of our stakeholder communities demonstrates Golden Star's dedication to Ghana and to sharing the success of our operations with our local communities. As we continue to expand our community development programs, we plan to integrate more local people and communities into our economic development and outreach programs, so assisting the Western Region of Ghana to achieve its full potential within the broader Ghana development.
OPERATING PROPERTIES
THE BOGOSO/PRESTEA GOLD MINE
Bogoso/Prestea consists of a gold mining and processing operation located along the Ashanti Trend in western Ghana, approximately 35 kilometers northwest of the town of Tarkwa. The mine site can be reached by paved roads from Accra, Ghana's capital city, via Tarkwa, a local commercial center. Bogoso and Prestea are adjoining mining concessions that together cover approximately 40 kilometers of strike along the southwest-trending Ashanti gold district. Mining areas at Bogoso and Prestea are linked to the Bogoso processing plants by paved and gravel haul-roads located on our properties.
There are two ore processing facilities at Bogoso/Prestea and open pit mining methods are employed. Ore is hauled by truck from the pits to the processing plants. Equipment and facilities include the nominal 1.5 million tonne per annum Bogoso oxide plant, the nominal 3.5 million tonne per annum Bogoso sulfide plant, a fleet of haul trucks, loaders, drills and mining support equipment. In addition, there are numerous ancillary support facilities including warehouses, maintenance shops, roadways, administrative offices, an employee residential complex, a water supply system, a stand-by 20 megawatt power plant, a medical clinic, and a tailings storage facility. Electric power is available locally from the Ghana power grid.
We acquired Bogoso in 1999 and Prestea in 2001. In July 2007, we completed construction and development of the Bogoso sulfide plant. Bogoso/Prestea gold sales totaled 140,504 ounces in 2011 and 170,973 ounces in 2010. See the “Operating Results for Bogoso/Prestea” below for additional details on historical production and operating costs. In addition to the Bogoso/Prestea complex described above, Bogoso/Prestea assets include the following properties:
Mampon - The Mampon deposit is located approximately 35 kilometers north east of the Bogoso Sulfide plant. Mampon is an
undeveloped gold deposit with, as of December 31, 2011, an estimated 1.6 million tonnes of Probable Mineral Reserves at an average gold grade of 4.62g/t, which we plan to mine by open pit mining methods. It is expected that Mampon ore will be hauled by truck to the Bogoso processing plants when mining is initiated there.
Pampe - The Pampe deposit is located approximately 19 kilometers west of the Bogoso processing plants. As of December 31, 2011, we have estimated a Probable Mineral Reserve of 1.6 million tonnes at an average gold grade of 3.55g/t. Pampe was mined during 2007 and 2008 but was placed on a care and maintenance until late 2011 when mining and waste stripping resumed in response to increased gold prices. Pampe ore will be moved by truck to the Bogoso oxide processing plant.
Prestea South - This property, located 20 km south west of the Bogoso/Prestea processing plants, is discussed in more detail below in the “DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES” section.
Prestea Underground - This property is discussed in more detail below in the “EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN GHANA” section.
Geology at Bogoso/Prestea
Bogoso/Prestea lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield along the Ashanti Trend located immediately south of the town of Bogoso. The area is dominated by a major northeast-southwest trending structural fault zone referred to as the Ashanti Trend, which hosts our Bogoso/Prestea operations as well as the Obuasi and Konongo gold deposits, among others. Parallel to the Ashanti Trend is the Akropong Trend, which hosts our Pampe property as well as the Ayanfuri deposit. The Akropong Trend is approximately 15 kilometers west of the Ashanti Trend in the Bogoso region.
Mineral Reserves at Bogoso/Prestea
At December 31, 2011, Bogoso/Prestea had Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves, including the Probable Mineral Reserves at Prestea South, Mampon and Pampe, of 40.7 million tonnes grading 2.55g/t containing approximately 3.4 million ounces of gold before any reduction for recovery losses and the Government of Ghana's 10% minority interest. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table and the Non-Reserves - Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource table in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Operating Results for Bogoso/Prestea
The following tables show historical operating results at Bogoso/Prestea:
Exploration at Bogoso/Prestea
During 2011, Bogoso/Prestea area exploration activities focused on drilling the full extents of the Buesichem South deposit which was discovered in late 2009. The drilling focus was shifted mid-year when Buesichem South drilling was completed and three rigs began drilling at Bogoso North, Chujah and Pampe. The drilling at these active pits targeted deeper inferred mineralization and strike extensions of the known zones. The Buesichem South drilling was used to update the resource estimates for year-end 2011, and additional resource model updates are expected to be completed for the other pits in the first half of 2012. The 2012 exploration focus will be on additional oxide or free milling targets such as Buesichem East, Opon and Opon East and Pampe South.
THE WASSA GOLD MINE
We own and operate the Wassa gold mine located approximately 35 kilometers east of Bogoso/Prestea in southwest Ghana. The property, as now constituted, includes several open-pit mines, the nominal 3.0 million tonne per annum CIL Wassa plant with its crushing and grinding circuits, a fleet of mining equipment, a tailings storage facility, ancillary facilities including an administration building, a warehouse, a maintenance shop, a stand-by power generating facility and an employee residential complex. Electric power is available locally from the Ghana power grid. We completed construction of the Wassa plant in early 2005, and the plant was placed in commercial service on April 1, 2005.
GSWL also owns and operates the Hwini-Butre and Benso mines located 80 and 50 km, respectively, south of Wassa. In 2008, following completion of a 50 km haul road, we started mining at Benso and began hauling its ore to Wassa for processing. In May 2009, following completion of a 30 km road extension, the Hwini-Butre mine began trucking ore to the Wassa processing plant. The Benso and Hwini-Butre mines include multiple open pits at both locations as well as mining equipment, equipment repair shops, warehouses and other ancillary support equipment and buildings. Mining was completed at Benso in February 2012. Mining is expected to continue at Hwini-Butre through early 2014.
Geology at Wassa
Wassa lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield. The Proterozoic rocks that comprise most of the West African craton and host the major gold mineralization in Ghana are subdivided into meta-sedimentary and volcanic rocks of the Birimian and Tarkwaian sequences. Wassa is hosted within the same Birimian volcano-sedimentary greenstone package as Bogoso/Prestea. However, Wassa is situated on the southeastern flank of the Ashanti Belt while Bogoso and Prestea occur along the northwestern flank.
Mineral Reserves at Wassa
As at December 31, 2011, Wassa and Hwini-Butre had Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves of 18.1 million tonnes with an average grade of 1.38g/t containing approximately 0.80 million ounces of gold. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table and the Non-Reserves - Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource table in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Operating Results for Wassa/HBB
The following table displays historical operating results at Wassa.
Exploration at Wassa/HBB
Exploration activities on the Wassa mining lease during 2011 focused on drilling higher grade zones of mineralization at depths below several of the existing pits as well as drilling along strike to the south. The drilling below the pits and along strike has confirmed gold grades and thicknesses that are expected to have a positive effect on future resources. This drilling will continue into 2012 and we intend on doing a reinterpretation and re-estimation of the geology and grade models in the second half of the year.
Exploration activities on the HBB concessions during 2011 included deeper drilling on two underground targets beneath the Subriso West and Father Brown pits and several other targets along the Wassa to Hwini-Butre haulage route. The drill results for a potential Subriso West underground deposit are yet to be incorporated into the resource models and once this is done, we plan to conduct a preliminary scoping study to determine whether underground exploitation is a viable option for this mineralization. The drilling done on the regional targets will be used for preliminary resource models and subsequent economic evaluations in 2012.
DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
PAMPE AND THE BOGOSO OXIDE PLANT REFURBISHMENT
Late in the third quarter of 2011, mining operations were restarted at the Pampe oxide property located 19 kilometers west of the Bogoso processing plant site. Ore mined at Pampe in the third and fourth quarters of 2011 was stockpiled, and the Bogoso oxide plant began processing this oxide ore in February 2012. It is expected that Pampe oxide ores will be less expensive to process than the Bogoso sulfide ores and should yield better gold recovery rates. In conjunction, the Bogoso oxide plant was refurbished during the last quarter of 2011 in anticipation of processing Pampe oxide and other non-refractory ores from the Bogoso area.
BOGOSO TAILINGS RECOVERY PROJECT
Construction continued during the fourth quarter of 2011 on our hydraulic tailings recovery system at Bogoso that will feed tailings from a decommissioned Bogoso tailings storage facility directly into the Bogoso oxide plant's CIL circuit. The final environmental permit needed for start-up was received in October 2011. While the grade of the tailings material is lower than that of the ores typically treated in the Bogoso oxide plant in the past, operating costs are expected to be low since reclaimed tailings have low mining costs and can be fed directly into the existing CIL circuit, thereby resulting in lower overall processing costs. It is expected that this material will be a supplemental feed to oxide ores mined from Pampe and later from Prestea South once mining is initiated there later in 2012.
PRESTEA SOUTH PROPERTIES
The Prestea South project is located on the Ashanti Trend, southwest of the town of Prestea and approximately 20 kilometers southwest of the Bogoso processing plants. Gold mineralization is associated with the same Ashanti Trend fault structure that continues to the north through our Bogoso and Prestea properties. While various sections of the mineral resources at Prestea South were mined by prior owners using underground methods, the surface oxide mineral resources have not been extensively mined, and there are also sulfide mineral resources accessible by open pit mining. Our past exploration efforts have identified several deposits along this trend which can be mined by surface mining methods.
We received mining permits for this area in 2008 and subsequently applied for environmental permits. We expect to initiate development at Prestea South, including its 10 kilometer haul road extension, once the environmental permits are received. The Prestea South oxide ore will be transported to Bogoso and processed through the Bogoso oxide plant. The Prestea South sulfide ore will be processed through the Bogoso sulfide plant.
As of December 31, 2011, the Prestea South properties had total Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves of 6.1 million tonnes grading 2.35g/t containing approximately 0.46 million ounces.
EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
Prestea Underground
The Prestea Underground is an inactive underground gold mine located a few kilometers south of Bogoso and adjacent to the town of Prestea. The property consists of two usable access shafts and extensive underground workings and support facilities. Access to the mine site is via a paved road from Tarkwa.
The Prestea Underground was mined from the 1870's until 2002 when mining ceased following an extended period of low gold prices in the late 1990s and early 2000s. The Prestea Underground has produced approximately nine million ounces of gold, the second highest production of any mine in Ghana. The underground workings are extensive, reaching depths of approximately 1,450 meters and extending along a strike length of nine kilometers. Underground workings can currently be accessed via two surface shafts, one near the town of Prestea (Central Shaft) and a second approximately four kilometers to the southwest at Bondaye.
GSBPL now holds a 90% ownership in the Prestea Underground with the Government of Ghana holding a 10% ownership interest in the Prestea Underground as well as its 10% holding in GSBPL, resulting in an 81% beneficial ownership by Golden Star.
There were no exploration activities at the Prestea Underground in 2011. We continue to dewater the Prestea Underground, and we are refurbishing the Central Shaft and assessing services on 12, 17 and 24 levels. Dewatering, ongoing maintenance and refurbishment costs are included in the statement of operations and totaled approximately $8.7 million during 2011. In late
2011, our new Technical Services Group began a Pre-feasibility study to evaluate economic potential of developing the Prestea Underground mine using mechanized mining methods.
Geology of Prestea Underground
The Prestea Underground deposits are located along the same Ashanti Trend structure as are our Bogoso deposits a few kilometers to the northeast and our Prestea South deposits a few kilometers to the southwest, with most of the gold mineralization found in a tabular fault zone which dips steeply to the northwest.
Akropong Trend Properties
The Akropong properties are located along a fault structure which roughly parallels the Ashanti Trend and is located approximately 20 kilometers to the west of our Bogoso sulfide plant. Mining was restarted at Pampe in late 2011, and in conjunction, our 2011 Akropong trend drilling program was focused on expanding the extents of the known Pampe resources both down dip and along strike to the north and south. Drilling is planned to continue into the first quarter of 2012.
Dunkwa Properties
The Dunkwa Properties, are located along the Ashanti trend, northeast of our Bogoso mining lease, and consist of two prospecting licenses, Mansiso and Asikuma, the latter hosting our Mampon ore deposit. The 2011 exploration field work on the Dunkwa properties involved preparations for the drilling program to test the airborne electromagnetic conductor targets located east of the Opon deposit on the Mansiso prospecting license. Although no field exploration was completed on the Asikuma concession this year, a Mampon mining feasibility report was completed and submitted to the Ghana Mineral Commission as part of the application for converting the prospecting license to a mining lease. In anticipation of the mining lease, an environmental impact assessment study was initiated during 2011.
Other Exploration Stage Properties in Africa
Sierra Leone
The Sonfon project is a gold exploration property owned by a joint venture between Golden Star and Aureus Mining, with Golden Star as the majority owner and project manager. During 2011, this project was on care and maintenance, pending resolution of title issues with the government.
Cote d'Ivoire
In response to the improving political stability in Cote d'Ivoire during 2011, we plan to restart exploration activities in early 2012 with a deep auger drilling program designed to test the gold-in-soil anomalies over the Amelekia concession. In addition to the three licenses we already hold in Cote d'Ivoire, we submitted ten new applications in 2011 along mineralized trends throughout the country.
Burkina Faso
In October 2007, we granted Riverstone Resources Inc. (“Riverstone”) an option to purchase our Goulagou and Rounga concessions in Burkina Faso. Exploration programs in 2010 and 2011 were managed and implemented by Riverstone and mainly consisted of infill reverse circulation drilling. In December 2011, Riverstone informed us that they intended to exercise their purchase option for these two properties and the sale was completed in February 2012 upon receipt of $6.6 million of cash and 21.7 million Riverstone common shares.
Deba and Tialkam Projects, Niger
Our interest in the Deba and Tialkam gold properties in Niger were optioned to AMI Resources in 2009, which is earning into the properties. AMI actively explored these properties in 2011 spending approximately $1 million.
Exploration Stage Properties in South America
Saramacca Property
The Saramacca property, located in Suriname, consists of three concessions totaling approximately 486 square kilometers. In 2009, Newmont Mining Corporation (“Newmont”) earned a 51% interest in the Saramacca project by having spent $6 million on exploration and has since taken over management of the project. Also in 2009, we entered into an agreement with Newmont
to sell them our remaining interest in the Saramacca joint venture for approximately $8.0 million subject to the governments of Suriname's transfer of ownership of the exploration license to Newmont. The joint venture has continued work on the property since that date, investing a further $6 million in drilling and development.
Newmont has spent the past two years seeking transfer of the license, but the government of Suriname has still not agreed to the transfer. In the interim, Newmont submitted a feasibility study to the Government of Suriname in 2011 requesting conversion of the prospecting licenses to an exploitation license and discussions on this request are also on-going. When the license transfer is completed we expect to receive the $8 million purchase price, which is currently being held in escrow.
Brazil
Our field exploration efforts in Brazil this year concentrated on Northern Mato Grosso, where we participated in a joint venture with Votorantim Minerals. We also conducted sampling programs on concessions in Goias state, but results were inconclusive and these concessions were dropped. Kinross Gold Corporation continues to explore our Sao Bartolomeau concessions in Minas Gerais state and have indicated they expect to continue with additional exploration efforts in 2012 as required to earn into the property.
Our Votorantim Minerals agreement covers a 3,400 square kilometer land package in Northern Mato Grosso and is known as the the Iriri joint venture. This joint venture requires us to spend $5 million to earn 50% of the precious metal rights on this land package over a three year period, ending September 2013. Additional ownership can be acquired if a project advances to the feasibility stage and we complete a feasibility study. The 2011 exploration program on the Iriri Joint Venture concentrated on testing several previously defined stream catchment gold anomalies as well as regional stream sediment sampling in untested areas. The 2011 stream sampling programs covered approximately 80% of the Iriri concession before winding up in advance of the seasonal rains. The remaining stream samples will be collected in 2012 after the water levels subside in the catchments. Follow up soil sampling and prospecting will be planned once all stream results have been returned and anomalies prioritized.
ITEM 3.