ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
MAPS OF OPERATIONS AND PROPERTIES
The maps below show the locations of Bogoso, Prestea, Wassa, Pampe, the HBB properties and Mampon in Ghana, and various exploration properties in other areas of West Africa. These properties are described in further detail below.
PROPERTY STATUS TABLE
The chart below summarizes information regarding our more significant properties, which are described in further detail below:
MINING IN GHANA
Ghanaian Ownership and Special Rights
Ghana is situated on the west coast of Africa, approximately 600 kms north of the Equator on the Gulf of Guinea. Accra, the capital city of Ghana, is located almost exactly on the Prime Meridian. The former British colony changed its name from the Gold Coast to Ghana on achieving independence on March 6, 1957. Ghana is now a republic with a population of approximately 24 million people and a democratically elected government. English remains the official and commercial language.
The total land area of the country is approximately 238,000 square kilometers and the topography is relatively flat. Ghana has a tropical climate with two rainy seasons and two dry seasons each year particularly in the western region where Golden Star Resources has its two operations.
Rights to explore and develop a mine are administered by the Minister of Lands and Natural Resources, through the Minerals Commission, a governmental organization designed to promote and regulate the development of Ghana’s mineral wealth in accordance with the Minerals and Mining Act of 2006 (Act 703), which came into effect in March 2006 (“The 2006 Act”).
A company or individual can apply to the Minerals Commission for a renewable exploration license granting exclusive rights to explore for a particular mineral in a selected area for an initial period not exceeding three years. When exploration has successfully delineated a Mineral Reserve, an application may be made to the Minerals Commission for conversion to a mining lease, granting a company the right to produce a specific product from the concession area, normally for a period of 20 to 30 years or a lesser period that may be agreed upon with the applicant.
The 2006 Act requires that any person who intends to acquire a controlling share of the equity of any mining company that has been granted a mining lease, must first give notice of its intent to the Government and obtain its consent prior to acquiring a controlling share.
Under the 2006 Act, the Government of Ghana holds a 10% free-carried interest in all companies that hold mining leases. The 10% free carried interest entitles the Government to a pro-rata share of future dividends. The Government has no obligation to contribute development capital or operating expenses. GSBPL and GSWL owe $496 million and $155 million, respectively, to Golden Star or its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 for past advances and interest on these advances, and these amounts would be repaid before payment of any dividends.
Under the 2006 Act, the Government of Ghana is empowered to acquire a special or golden share in any mining company. The special share would constitute a separate class of shares with such rights as the Government and the mining company might agree. Though deemed a preference share, it could be redeemed without any consideration or for a consideration determined by the Company and payable to the holder on behalf of the Republic.
In the absence of such agreement, the special share would have the following rights:
•
it would carry no voting rights, but the holder would be entitled to receive notice of and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the members or any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares;
•
it could only be issued to, held by, or transferred to the Government or a person acting on behalf of the Government;
•
the written consent of the holder would be required for all amendments to the organizational documents of the company, the voluntary winding-up or liquidation of the company or the disposal of any mining lease or the whole or any material part of the assets of the company;
•
it would not confer a right to participate in the dividends, profits or assets of the company or a return of assets in a winding up or liquidation of the company;
•
the holder of a special share may require the company to redeem the special share at any time for no consideration or for a consideration determined by the company
GSBPL and GSWL have not issued, nor to date been requested to issue, a special share to the Government of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana has a pre-emptive right to purchase all gold and other minerals produced by mines in Ghana. The purchase price would be agreed by the Government of Ghana and the mining company, or the price established by any gold hedging arrangement between the company and any third party approved by the Government, or the publicly quoted market price prevailing for the minerals or products as delivered at the mine or plant where the right of preemption was exercised. The Government of Ghana has agreed to take no preemptive action pursuant to its right to purchase gold or other minerals so long as mining companies sell gold in accordance with certain procedures approved by the Bank of Ghana.
Ghanaian Royalty Requirements
The holder of a mining lease is required to pay quarterly a royalty of not less than 3% and not more than 6% of gold revenues. The Government of Ghana determines the royalty percentage each year based on the ratio that our operating margin bears to the value of gold produced from a mining lease in that year.
Based on the Mineral Royalty Regulation currently in force, the royalty is 3% when the operating ratio is 30% or less, and increases 0.075% for each 1% increase in operating ratio until it reaches a maximum of 6% at an operating ratio of 70%. In 2009, 2008 and 2007 the royalty rate for GSBPL was 3% of revenues and GSBPL paid $5.4 million, $4.5 million and, $2.6 million, respectively. The royalty payments from GSBPL have not exceeded 3% per annum in any year. GSWL paid a 3% royalty of $7.3 million, $3.3 million and $2.7 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
During 2009, the Government of Ghana announced its intention to increase mining royalty rates as part of a general review of national revenue sources. It is unclear when and how this will be implemented.
Ghanaian Environmental Regulations
Environmental matters in Ghana, including those related to mining, fall under the oversight of the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), with some responsibilities lying with the Minerals Commission. The EPA has rules and guidelines that govern environmental and socioeconomic impact statements, environmental management plans, mine operations, the quality of water discharges to the receiving environment, and mine closure and reclamation, among others to which our operations are subject. Additional provisions governing surface uses by our stakeholders are provided in the 2006 Mining Act.
In 2005, pursuant to a reclamation bonding agreement between the EPA and GSWL, we bonded $3.0 million to cover future reclamation obligations at Wassa. To meet the bonding requirements, we established a $2.85 million letter of credit and deposited $0.15 million of cash with the EPA. Pursuant to a further bonding agreement between the EPA and GSBPL, we bonded $9.5 million in early 2006 to cover our future obligations at Bogoso/Prestea. To meet these requirements, we deposited $0.9 million of cash with the EPA with the balance covered by a letter of credit. In 2008, the bond was increased by $0.5 million to cover the Pampe mining site.
In 2008, the EPA required Bogoso/Prestea to resubmit their Environmental Management Plan (“EMP”) with an updated estimate of the reclamation and closure costs prepared by a third party consultant. A consultant was commissioned to prepare the reclamation and closure cost estimate and the EMP was submitted to the EPA in February, 2009. The EPA requested payment of fees associated with the issuance of the certificate, which was completed. Bogoso/Prestea has completed all the legal requirements and is waiting for the EPA to issue the environmental certificate.
In 2009, the EPA required Wassa to resubmit their EMP with an updated estimate of the reclamation and closure costs prepared by a third party consultant. A consultant was commissioned to review the reclamation and closure cost estimate and the EMP was submitted to the EPA in September 2009. A letter from the EPA was subsequently received with comments and Wassa was asked to incorporate the comments and submit the required number of copies to the EPA. The document is under revision for submission.
Reclamation activities were ongoing at both Wassa and Bogoso/Prestea during 2009 to rehabilitate disturbed lands and reduce some of the long-term liabilities including re-profiling waste dumps, capping hard rock with oxide materials, topsoil spreading and planting for both slope stabilization and long-term rehabilitation. Our consolidated reclamation expenditures totaled $2.0 million, $1.2 million and $0.9 million respectively in 2009, 2008 and 2007. We believe all our operations in Ghana are currently in substantial compliance with all environmental requirements.
Environmental Laws and Regulations
All phases of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions where we operate. These regulations may define, among other things, air and water quality standards, waste management requirements, and mine closure and land rehabilitation obligations. In general, environmental legislation is evolving to require stricter operating standards, more detailed social and environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors, and employees for social responsibility and health and safety. However, changes in environmental regulations could affect the way we operate, resulting in higher environmental and social operating costs that may affect the viability of our operations. In the past year in particular, we have noted a trend toward increasing environmental requirements.
We use hazardous chemicals in our gold recovery activities, so generating environmental contaminants that may adversely affect air and water quality. To mitigate these effects, we have established objectives to achieve regulatory requirements in all of our exploration, development, operation, closure, and post-closure activities so that our employees, the local environment and our stakeholder communities are protected and that the post-closure land use contributes to the sustainability of the local economy. In order to meet our objectives, we have:
•
educated our leaders and managers so that they are committed to creating a culture that makes social and environmental matters an integral part of the short- and long-term operations and performance management systems;
•
worked with our employees so that they understand and accept environmental and social policies and procedures as a fundamental part of the business;
•
signed and implemented the International Cyanide Management Code (“the Code”) and attained substantive compliance for both the Bogoso/Prestea and Wassa operations;
•
signed and publicly stated our support for the UN Global Compact and completed our communications on progress (COP);
•
established, and continue to improve operating standards and procedures that aim to meet or exceed requirements in relevant laws and regulations, the commitments made in our environmental impact statements, environmental and socioeconomic management plans, rehabilitation and closure plans and any international protocols to which we are a signatory;
•
incorporated environmental and human rights performance requirements into all relevant contracts;
•
provided training to employees and contractors in environmental matters;
•
regularly prepared, reviewed, updated and implemented site-specific environmental management and rehabilitation and closure plans;
•
worked to progressively rehabilitate disturbed areas in conformance with the site-specific environmental management and rehabilitation and closure plans;
•
consulted local communities and regulators to provide us with input to our environmental management policies and procedures;
•
regularly reviewed our environmental performance; and
•
publicly reported our social, health, safety, and environmental performance.
Governmental approvals and permits are currently required and will likely continue to be required in the future in connection with our operations and development activities. To the extent that such approvals are required and not obtained, we could be limited or prohibited from continuing our mining and processing operations or from proceeding with planned exploration or the development of mineral properties.
Our mining, processing, development and mineral exploration activities are subject to various laws governing prospecting, development, production, taxes, labor standards, occupational health and safety, land claims of local people and other matters. New rules and regulations may be enacted or existing rules and regulations may be modified and applied in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
In keeping with our health and safety, environmental, community relations and human rights policies, we strive at all times to conduct our business as a responsible corporate citizen. We believe our ongoing success in Ghana depends on our continuing efforts to build good relations with our local stakeholder communities and by incorporating broader stakeholder comments and addressing their concerns in our developing projects and ongoing operations. We believe our success as an employer, as a neighbor and as an important part of the local economy is furthered by contributing to the diversification of the local economy with projects such as our Oil Palm Project and by our support of community-driven improvement projects through our Development Foundation. During 2009, the Development Foundation worked with our local Community Mine Consultation Committees to fund and sponsor several community-driven projects including a medical clinic, continuing scholarships for local students, nurses quarters, a clinic refurbishment, supplying of medical equipment in partnership with Project C.U.R.E., school buildings and community electrification projects.
Our Oil Palm Project continued to advance during 2009 and now has over 700 hectares under cultivation. Our second set of plantation plots were handed over resulting in a total of 132 families now each having 4 hectares of oil palm plantation.
In our efforts to promote transparency in governance, we continue to work with the Extractive Industry Transparency Initiative and throughout 2009 we published our payments to government (e.g. taxes, royalties, fees). We furthered our work in human rights and against child and forced labor with an extensive training program within GSR and expressed our support of human rights in letter outlining our commitment and training material that were sent to the to our major suppliers.
Our commitment to the development of our stakeholder communities demonstrates Golden Star’s dedication to Ghana and to sharing the success of our operations with our local communities. As we continue to expand the Oil Palm Project, we will integrate more local people and communities into our economic development and outreach programs, so assisting the Western Region of Ghana to achieve its full potential within the broader Ghana development.
OPERATING PROPERTIES
The Bogoso/Prestea Gold Mine
Bogoso/Prestea consists of a gold mining and processing operation located along the Ashanti Trend in western Ghana, approximately 35 kilometers northwest of the town of Tarkwa. It can be reached by paved roads from Tarkwa, a local commercial center, and from Accra, the capital of Ghana. Bogoso and Prestea are adjoining mining concessions that together cover approximately 40 kilometers of strike along the southwest trending Ashanti gold district. Mining areas at Bogoso and Prestea are linked to the Bogoso processing plants by paved and gravel haul-roads located on our properties.
There are two ore processing facilities at Bogoso/Prestea, and open pit mining methods are employed. Ore is hauled by truck from the pits to the processing plants. Equipment and facilities include a nominal 1.5 million tonne per annum oxide ore processing plant, a nominal 3.5 million tonne per annum sulfide ore processing plant, a fleet of haul trucks, loaders, drills and mining support equipment. In addition, there are numerous ancillary support facilities including warehouses, maintenance shops, roadways, administrative offices, an employee residential complex, power and water supply systems, a medical clinic, and a tailings disposal facility.
We acquired Bogoso in 1999 and Prestea in 2001. Bogoso/Prestea gold sales totaled 120,216 ounces in 2007, 170,499 in 2008 and 186,054 in 2009. See the “Operating Results for Bogoso/Prestea” section below for additional details on historical production and operating costs. In addition to the Bogoso/Prestea complex described above, Bogoso/Prestea assets include the following non-operating properties:
Mampon-The Mampon deposit is located approximately 35 kilometers north of the Bogoso processing plant. Mampon is an undeveloped gold deposit with, as of December 31, 2009, an estimated 1.2 million tonnes of Probable Mineral Reserves at an average gold grade of 5.24 g/t, which we plan to mine by open pit mining methods. It is expected that Mampon ore will be hauled by truck to the Bogoso processing plants when mining is initiated here.
Pampe-The Pampe deposit is located approximately 19 kilometers west of the Bogoso processing plants. As at December 31, 2009 we have estimated a Probable Mineral Reserve of 1.5 million tonnes at an average gold grade of 3.53 g/t. Pampe was mined during 2007 and 2008 but has been placed on a care and maintenance since then. We expect to resume mining at Pampe once mining is initiated at Prestea South so that Pampe oxide ore will be blended with the Prestea South oxide ore.
Prestea South-This property, located 20 km south of the Bogoso/Prestea processing plants, is discussed in more detail below under the DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES section.
Prestea Underground-This property is discussed in more detail below under the EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN GHANA section.
Geology at Bogoso/Prestea
Bogoso/Prestea lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield along the Ashanti Trend located immediately south of the town of Bogoso. The area is dominated by a major northeast-southwest trending structural fault zone referred to as the Ashanti Trend, which hosts the Prestea, Bogoso, Obuasi and Konongo gold deposits, among others. Parallel to the Ashanti Trend is the Akropong Trend, which hosts the Ayanfuri deposit. The Akropong Trend is about 15 kilometers west of the Ashanti Trend in the Bogoso region, and gradually converges with it at Obuasi forming the basis for the Obuasi mine, which is owned and operated by AngloGold Ashanti Limited.
Mineral Reserves at Bogoso/Prestea
At December 31, 2009, Bogoso/Prestea had Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves, including the Probable Mineral Reserves at Prestea South, Mampon and Pampe, of 31.2 million tonnes grading 2.74 g/t containing approximately 2.75 million ounces of gold before any reduction for recovery losses and the Government of Ghana’s 10% minority interest. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table and the Non-Reserves - Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource table in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Operating Results for Bogoso/Prestea
The following tables show historical operating results:
(1) Gold sales are shown on a 100% basis, which represents our current beneficial interest in gold production and revenues. Once all capital has been repaid, the Government of Ghana would receive 10% of the dividends from the subsidiary owning Bogoso/Prestea.
(2) The Bogoso/Prestea sulfide processing plant was placed in service in July 2007.
Exploration at Bogoso/Prestea
During 2009, Bogoso/Prestea area exploration activities focused on drilling VTEM geophysical targets and testing extensions of gold mineralization in proximity to the operating pits. The VTEM targets were ranked based on favorable geology and structure coinciding with zones of high conductivity. During 2009 we tested the two top ranked VTEM targets, which were near Chujah and Buesichem, and based on the 2009 results, plan follow-up drilling on the Buesichem target in 2010. We also plan to drill test other Bogoso/Prestea VTEM targets over the next few years.
Bogoso/Prestea Outlook for
During 2010 we expect that the Bogoso sulfide plant will continue to process refractory sulfide ores from the pits at Bogoso/Prestea. The Bogoso oxide plant may process sulfide ores, if needed, to maintain optimum sulfide concentrate feed to the Bogoso sulfide biox reactors. We expect Bogoso/Prestea will produce approximately 200,000 ounces of gold in 2010 from sulfide ores at an average cash operating cost of approximately $650 per ounce.
The Wassa Gold Mine
Overview of the Wassa Gold Mine
We own and operate the Wassa gold mine located approximately 35 kilometers east of Bogoso/Prestea in southwest Ghana. The property was acquired in 2001 from a former owner who had operated Wassa as a heap leach gold mine. The property, as now constituted, includes a series of open-pits, a nominal 3.0 million tonne per annum CIL processing plant with its crushing and grinding circuits, a fleet of mining equipment, ancillary facilities including an administration building, a warehouse, a maintenance shop, a stand-by power generating facility and an employee residential complex. We completed construction of the CIL processing plant in early 2005, and the plant was placed in commercial service on April 1, 2005.
Wassa also owns and operates the Hwini-Butre and Benso mines located 80 and 50 km, respectively, south of Wassa. In the third quarter of 2008, following completion of a 50 km haul road, we started mining at Benso and began hauling its ore to Wassa for processing. In May 2009, following completion of a 30 km road extension, the Hwini-Butre mine began trucking ore to the Wassa processing plant. The Benso and Hwini-Butre mines include multiple open pits at both locations as well as mining equipment, equipment repair shops, warehouses and other ancillary support equipment and buildings.
Geology at Wassa
Wassa lies within the Eburnean Tectonic Province in the West African Precambrian Shield. The Proterozoic rocks that comprise most of the West African craton and host the major gold mineralization in Ghana are subdivided into meta-sedimentary and volcanic rocks of the Birimian and Tarkwaian sequences. Wassa is hosted within the same Birimian volcano-sedimentary greenstone package as Bogoso/Prestea. However, Wassa is situated on the southeastern flank of the Ashanti Belt while Bogoso and Prestea occur along the northwestern flank.
Mineral Reserves at Wassa
As at December 31, 2009 Wassa, including the HBB properties, had Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves of 17.1 million tonnes with an average grade of 1.79 g/t containing approximately 0.99 million ounces of gold before recovery losses and any reduction for the Government of Ghana’s 10% minority interest. See the Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves table and the Non-Reserves - Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource table in Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Operating Results for Wassa
The following table displays historical operating results at Wassa.
Exploration at Wassa
Wassa’s 2009 exploration activities focused on expanding reserves in the Wassa main pit and the development of new deeper ore zones at the SAK pits during 2009 which resulted in a decision to deepen the SAK 1 pit in 2010 to access the new-found reserves. Later in 2009, drilling proceeded to test various targets around the Benso mining operations and near the Hwini Butre mine operations.
Wassa Outlook for 2010
Wassa/HBB is expected to produce approximately 200,000 ounces in 2010 at an average cash operating cost of approximately $520 per ounce.
DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
Prestea South Properties
The Prestea South project is located on the Ashanti Trend, southwest of the town of Prestea and approximately 20 kilometers southeast of the Bogoso processing plants. Gold mineralization is associated with the same Ashanti Trend fault structure that continues to the north through our Bogoso and Prestea properties. While various sections of the mineral resources at Prestea South were mined by prior owners using underground methods, the surface oxide mineral resources have not been extensively mined, and there are sulfide mineral resources accessible by open pit mining. Our exploration efforts in recent years have identified several deposits along this trend which can be mined by surface mining methods.
We received mining permits for this area in 2008 and subsequently applied for environmental permits. We expect to initiate development at Prestea South, including its 20 kilometer haul road, once the environmental permits are received. The Prestea South oxide ore will be transported to Bogoso and processed through the Bogoso oxide plant. The Prestea South sulfide ore will be processed through the Bogoso sulfide plant.
As of December 31, 2009, the Prestea South properties had total Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves of 4.6 million tonnes grading 2.58 g/t containing approximately 0.38 million ounces before any reduction for the Government of Ghana’s 10% minority interest. Prestea South Mineral Reserve estimates have been adjusted to reflect our estimate of the ore illegally removed.
EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN GHANA
Prestea Underground
The Prestea Underground is an inactive underground gold mine located to the south of Bogoso and adjacent to the town of Prestea. The property consists of two useable access shafts and extensive underground workings and support facilities. Access to the mine site is via a paved road from Tarkwa and Accra maintained by the Government of Ghana.
From the 1870’s to 2002 when mining ceased following an extended period of low gold prices, the Prestea Underground operations produced approximately nine million ounces of gold, the second highest production of any mine in Ghana. The underground workings are extensive, reaching depths of approximately 1,450 meters and extending along a strike length of approximately nine kilometers. Underground workings can currently be accessed via two surface shafts, one near the town of Prestea (Central Shaft) and a second approximately four kilometers to the southwest at Bondaye.
GSBPL now holds a 90% ownership in the Prestea Underground with the Government of Ghana holding a 10% ownership in Prestea Underground as well as its 10% holding in GSBPL, resulting in an 81% beneficial ownership by Golden Star.
Exploration activities at the Prestea Underground in 2009 were limited to desktop review of additional drilling targets. We continue to dewater the Prestea Underground, and we are refurbishing the Central Shaft and assessing services on 12, 17 and 24 level.
Geology of Prestea Underground
The Prestea Underground deposits are located along the same Ashanti Trend structure as are our Bogoso deposits a few kilometers to the north and our Prestea South deposits a few kilometers to the south with most of the gold mineralization found in a narrow tabular fault zone which dips steeply to the northwest.
Akropong Trend Properties
The Akropong properties are located along a fault structure which roughly parallels the Ashanti Trend and is located approximately 20 kilometers to the west of our Bogoso processing plant. Our 2009 exploration programs tested several targets along this trend with further rotary air blast drilling being planned for 2010. If this exploration is successful we would look at trucking this material to our Bogoso processing plant as we had been doing with ore from Pampe, located on the southern end of these properties. We also intend to test the down dip high grade portions of the Pampe deposit, below the current open pit designs, in 2010. These targets would be amenable to underground mining methods should we intersect grades and thicknesses of economic viability.
Dunkwa Properties
The Dunkwa Properties, which are located directly north of our Bogoso Mining lease, consist of two prospecting licenses, Mansiso and Asikuma, the latter hosting our Mampon ore deposit.
The Mansiso and Asikuma concessions were both flown as part of the 2008 VTEM airborne geophysical survey. The chargeability response from this survey has enhanced the understanding of the major structures running through the property and several new targets have been identified, some of which were explored in 2009. We continue to follow up on targets generated by this geophysical survey and have plans to drill the Opon East anomaly which we identified in 2009. Deeper exploration drilling to test the high grade down plunge extension of the Mampon deposit has also been budgeted for 2010.
OTHER EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN AFRICA
African Aura Mining (Mano River) Joint Venture, Sierra Leone
There was minimal activity at the Sonfon project during 2009. Field activities were restarted in late 2009 and will carry over into 2010 when we plan to conduct additional geophysical surveys and drilling programs. Drilling targets will follow up on any geophysical anomalies delineated from the survey as well as on significant results intersected during the initial diamond drilling campaign in 2008.
During 2009 our cumulative life-to-date exploration expenditures at Sonfon reached $2 million which, per terms of the joint venture agreement, earned Golden star a 51% interest in the Sonfon property.
Cote d’Ivoire
The 2009 exploration programs focused on our Amélekia and Abengourou concessions located in the southeastern portion of Cote d’Ivoire adjacent to the Ghanaian border along northeast trending structures located to the west of the Sefwi greenstone belt in Ghana. Late in 2009 we initiated an infill soil sampling program over the two previously defined soil anomalies on the Amelekia concession. This program will carry over into 2010, and once completed, we plan to follow up on any gold in soil anomalies with first pass rotary air blast drilling.
Burkina Faso
We hold a 90% beneficial interest in the Goulagou and adjoining Rounga gold properties, with a local Burkina Faso partner owning a 10% interest. The Government of Burkina Faso will receive a statutory 10% carried interest upon the granting of a mining lease. The two properties are located approximately 100 kilometers west of Ouagadougou, the capital city of Burkina Faso, and 20 kilometers north of the city of Ouahigouya. Drilling programs carried out by the prior owner and its predecessors identified several areas of gold mineralization including two parallel zones on the Goulagou property - the Goulagou I and II deposits.
In October 2007, we granted Riverstone Resources Inc. (“Riverstone”) an option to purchase the Goulagou and Rounga concessions. Exploration programs in 2009 were managed and implemented by Riverstone and mainly consisted of infill reverse circulation drilling on the Goulagou concession. We expect that Riverstone will continue its exploration efforts during 2010.
In addition to the Goulagou and Rounga concessions, Golden Star Burkina Faso also holds three other licenses which preliminary reconnaissance exploration work was carried out on in late 2009. Results from this first pass prospection will determine how we proceed with these properties in 2010.
Deba and Tialkam Projects, Niger
Our interest in the Deba and Tialkam gold properties in Niger were optioned to AMI Resources in 2009, which is earning into the property.
EXPLORATION STAGE PROPERTIES IN SOUTH AMERICA
Saramacca Property
The Saramacca property, located in Suriname, consists of three concessions totaling 536 square kilometers. The area is underlain by lower Proterozoic greenstone rocks of the Paramaka and Armina formations which also host IamGold’s Gross Rosebel Mine and Newmont’s Nassau gold project. During 2009, Newmont earned a 51% interest in the Saramacca project by spending $6 million on exploration expenditures and has taken over management of the programs. In November 2009, we entered into an agreement to sell our interest in the Saramacca joint venture to Newmont for approximately $8.0 million. Proceeds of the sale have been put in escrow pending the receipt of required governmental approvals and certain additional customary conditions.
French Guiana
Activities in French Guiana remained on a care and maintenance basis during 2009 waiting on the French Governments finalization of the “new Mining Scheme”. All of our concession renewals and applications have remained in a state of suspension as the new legislation is yet to be approved.
In November 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement in respect of the outstanding litigation regarding the Paul Isnard properties in French Guiana, pursuant to which the rights to those properties are to be transferred to us, subject to receiving the required governmental approvals. Also in November 2009, we entered into an agreement to sell our rights, title and interest in the Bon Espoir, Iracoubo Sud and Paul Isnard properties in French Guiana for approximately $2.1 million.
Brazil
Several potential joint venture earn-in opportunities were identified and new concessions were staked during 2009. We have farmed out several of our concessions in Minas Gerais and we are seeking partners for other projects in this area. Golden Star is focusing its 2010 exploration efforts in Northern Mato Grosso and we will also continue to evaluate prospective ground as well as farm-in or acquisition opportunities in other locations in Brazil as well.
ITEM 3.