ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES - ------- -------------------------
The following contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. Actual results, performance or achievements of the Company could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
General
As of March 12, 1999, the Company owned, or had entered into agreements to acquire, direct and indirect interests in mineral properties located in the following countries: Guyana, France (French Guiana), Suriname, Bolivia and Brazil in South America as well as Kenya and Ivory Coast in Africa. The location of the Company's current active projects are illustrated in Figures 1 and 2 above.
All of the properties in which the Company had an interest as at March 12, 1999, are situated in geologic domains known as greenstone belts, which are ancient volcanic-sedimentary rock assemblages. Greenstone belts are known to be favorable geologic environments for gold mineralization and account for a significant proportion of the world's gold production, (e.g., the greenstone belts of the Canadian Shield in Eastern Canada, the Pilbara and Yilgarn Blocks of Western Australia, the greenstone belts of East and West Africa and the Guiana and Brazilian Shields of South America). In addition, as a result of the Company's gold exploration activity in the Guiana Shield, a regional exploration program was also established to search for possible primary diamond sources. This diamond exploration program has led to the identification of diamond targets in French Guiana, Suriname and Guyana. Regional geophysical surveys conducted in Ivory Coast have also led to the identification of diamond targets. In light of the Company's reduced exploration expenditures, diamond exploration efforts in the Guyana Shield have been significantly curtailed.
Gold exploration and mining have, in the past, been conducted within most of the areas where the Company's properties are located. However, with a few exceptions, the areas have yielded comparatively few large scale mining operations, due largely to a difficult physical environment, poor infrastructure, and until recently, adverse political and business conditions. Although there are, or have been, numerous artisanal mining operations scattered throughout the areas where the Company's properties are located, with very few exceptions, these areas had not until recently been fully explored with modern techniques and equipment.
All of the Company's mineral properties are located in developing countries, with the exception of French Guiana, a department of France. There are certain business and political risks inherent in doing business in developing countries. In particular, the regulatory framework for conducting mining and exploration activities in these countries, including the tax and general fiscal regimes and the manner in which rights and title to mineral properties are established and maintained, are often uncertain, incomplete, in a state of flux or subject to change without notice. Further, in many countries in which the Company's projects are located, it may not be economically feasible to develop a commercial mine unless special tax or other fiscal and regulatory concessions are obtained from the applicable government and regulatory authorities. Such concessions are typically sought in a mineral agreement (also known as foreign investment agreements and establishment agreements). A mineral agreement thus serves to establish the legal and financial framework pursuant to which mining will take place in countries where such framework might be otherwise unclear, uncertain or not commercially viable. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to execute or enforce satisfactory mineral agreements or obtain satisfactory political risk insurance on commercially reasonable terms for any or all of its properties. Consequently, the Company may have to abandon or relinquish otherwise valuable mineral rights if it determines that it will not be able to profitably exploit any discovery under existing laws and regulations. (See "Item 1. Risk Factors - Risks of exploration and development in foreign countries and Requirements for permits and licenses".)
Total consolidated expenditures and property abandonment costs for the Company's exploration projects for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998 were as follows:
(1) A division of the Company. (2) Approximately 71% owned by the Company as of March 12, 1999. (3) Wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The following is a description of the principal mineral property interests held by the Company as of March 12, 1999. As a result of continuing weak gold prices, most, if not all, earlier stage projects have been abandoned or put on care and maintenance. Management may decide to modify expenditures currently budgeted for 1999 (as described below) later during the year if market and investment considerations warrant.
GUYANA PROPERTIES - -----------------
The Co-operative Republic of Guyana ("Guyana"), a former British colony, obtained independence in 1966. It has a surface area of 216,000 km2 with a population of approximately 800,000. The official language is English and the climate is tropical. Guyana is governed as a democratic republic, and the legal and land title systems are based on the English common law.
Omai Gold Mines Limited
OGML is an equity joint venture of the Government of Guyana, the Company and Cambior Inc. ("Cambior"). The Company owns a 30% common share equity interest in OGML. Cambior and the Government of Guyana own 65% and 5% of OGML, respectively. OGML owns the Omai Mine, the Eagle Mountain, OMAI River and Quartz Hill prospecting licenses.
Omai Mine
The Omai mine is owned by OGML. Cambior is the manager of all mining and related operations. The mine is located on a 52 km2 mining license on the Essequibo River, approximately 160 km southwest of Georgetown, Guyana. Access to the mine is by improved road and ferry or by fixed-wing aircraft to an all- weather airstrip.
The Company and Cambior entered into an agreement with the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission ("GGMC") and the Government of Guyana on August 16, 1991 (the "OMAI Mineral Agreement"), whereby, among other things, OGML was granted the right to obtain a mining license (which was granted on December 12,
1991), and to carry out mining operations in accordance with the terms of the Omai Mineral Agreement. In addition, the Omai Mineral Agreement provides for the payment to the Government of Guyana of a 5% in-kind royalty from the Omai Mine. It also provides that capital and profits may be repatriated without restrictions.
Pursuant to OGML's articles of incorporation, the Government of Guyana was granted the option to acquire from the combined holdings of the Company and Cambior in the common shares of OGML (i) after the expiration of eight years from commencement of commercial production at the Omai Mine (which was achieved in January 1993), but before the expiration of the tenth year, 5% of the common shares of OGML issued and outstanding at such time; and (ii) after the expiration of ten years from commencement of commercial production, but before the expiration of the twelfth year, an additional 22% of the common shares of OGML issued and outstanding at such time, at a price to be determined on the basis of the then current capital market values of the common shares of OGML. The Company and Cambior have each undertaken to sell and deliver to the Government of Guyana one-half of the total number of common shares of OGML required to be sold to the Government of Guyana upon exercise of the options mentioned above. If the Government of Guyana were to exercise both of its options as set forth above, the Company's common share equity interest in OGML would be reduced to 16.5%.
Pursuant to OGML's articles of incorporation, the Company received approximately $11.0 million of Class I redeemable preferred shares of OGML in recognition of past exploration costs incurred by the Company. These preferred shares must be redeemed prior to any distribution to the common shareholders of OGML out of 10% of net cash flow from operations of OGML (as defined in the Omai Mineral Agreement). The reimbursements are calculated and paid quarterly to the Company. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, the Company received $1,738,411 as a result of the redemption of Class I preferred shares, for a total of $8,051,730 in redemption of Class I preferred shares since the beginning of production in 1993. The Company does not expect to receive dividends from its common share holdings in OGML until debt owed by OGML and guaranteed by Cambior is repaid and Class II and III preferred shares held by Cambior are redeemed. As of December 31, 1998, OGML had $115.7 million in debt and a total of $50.2 million worth of Class II and III preferred shares outstanding. The Class III preferred shares have past cumulative unpaid dividends totaling $57.4 million as of December 31, 1998.
On August 19, 1995, a failure occurred in the main section of the tailings dam at the Omai Mine. The failure resulted in the discharge of cyanide-contaminated water into the Omai River, which in turn flowed into the Essequibo River. Production at the Omai Mine was suspended from August 19, 1995, and resumed on February 4, 1996, after the Government of Guyana and OGML executed an agreement authorizing, under certain conditions, OGML to recommence commercial production at the Omai Mine. As a consequence of the tailings dam failure, there are approximately 330 outstanding claims against OGML in Guyana. Such claims are currently being settled, without admission of liability, or being contested in good faith, as applicable. Amounts claimed as at March 12, 1999 against OGML do not exceed $400,000 in the aggregate and insurance coverage may be available to OGML in relation to a substantial portion of these claims. OGML and its shareholders, including the Company, may become involved as defendants, plaintiffs or otherwise in a variety of additional legal proceedings in Guyana or elsewhere in relation to this incident. There can be no assurance that such additional litigation will not result in material additional costs arising from out-of-court settlements, damage awards or other sanctions against OGML or the Company. There can also be no assurance that all or any of such additional costs will be covered by appropriate insurance.
Production and Reserves of Omai Mine
The Omai Mine was brought into commercial production in January 1993 and currently is the only gold producing property in which the Company has an interest. Gold production from 1993 through 1998 totaled 1,552,755 ounces.
Gold production in 1998 was 327,546 ounces, compared to 338,496 ounces in 1997 and 254,950 ounces in 1996. The 3% decrease in production in 1998 was primarily attributable to a lower average head grade of 1.44 g Au/t compared to 1.54 g Au/t in 1997, while throughput averaged approximately 21,100 tonnes per day processing 63% hard rock during 1998, compared to 20,100 tonnes per day processing 73% in 1997. Gold recovery rates were 92%
in 1998 compared to 93% in 1997, while direct mining costs, including royalties, were $240 per ounce in 1998, a slight improvement over the $245 per ounce experienced in 1997. Quarterly production statistics for the Omai mine for 1998 are as follows:
For 1999, the Omai mine is expected to produce approximately 306,000 ounces of gold at a direct mining cost of approximately $240 per ounce. Throughput is budgeted at approximately 20,400 tonnes per day processing approximately 67% hard rock. Head grades are anticipated to average 1.4 g Au/t with a budgeted gold recovery of 93%. During 1999, the continued stripping of waste is expected to result in a waste to ore ratio of approximately 3.6:1, compared to a life of mine waste to ore ratio of 1.9:1. As a result, the cost of additional waste stripping in excess of the average life of mine ratio will continue to be deferred and amortized in later years.
In reaction to continuing weak gold prices, OGML restated its proven and probable reserves for year-end 1998 using a $325 gold price compared to a $350 gold price used in 1997. On the basis of a $325 gold price, Omai's proven and probable reserves at December 31, 1998 stood at 42.9 million tonnes at an average grade of 1.4 g Au/t, representing approximately 1.89 million ounces of gold. This is compared to proven and probable reserves at December 31, 1997 of 54.1 million tonnes at an average grade of 1.4 g Au/t, representing approximately 2.52 million ounces of gold. Reserves at Omai are derived from four sources: the Fennell Pit, the Wenot Lake Pit, alluvial deposits and stockpiles. The following table summarizes the reserves for these sources at year end 1997 and 1998:
(1) Reserves are calculated using a price of gold of $350 per ounce for 1997 and $325 per ounce for 1998 with a cutoff grade of 0.35 g Au/t for soft rock reserves and 0.70 g Au/t for hard rock reserves.
Eagle Mountain
The Eagle Mountain project is located in Central Guyana, 50 km from the Omai Mine. Prior to its sale in December 1998, the Company owned a 100% interest in the Eagle Mountain Prospecting License. The transfer of the Eagle Mountain License by the Company to OGML was approved by the Guyana government on December 21, 1998. The purchase agreement between the Company, OGML and Cambior Inc. was executed on December 23, 1998 and, in accordance with the agreement, the Company received $80,000 on December 31, 1998 and the amount of $3,169,230 was advanced to the Company by OGML. This unsecured loan is non-interest bearing until September 30, 2010 and must be repaid from the proceeds of redemption of Class I Preference Shares of OGML held by the Company. Starting October 1, 2010, the loan will bear interest at the US dollar prime rate. In addition, upon commencement of commercial production, OGML will have to pay the Company a 1.5% net smelter royalty. OGML will also pay to the Company an amount equal to $1 million at the end of each of the first five twelve-month periods following commencement of commercial production. As a result of the transfer to OGML, the Company now has a 30% indirect interest in the Eagle Mountain project. In consideration for receiving a 5% free carried interest (its interest in OGML), the government of Guyana has accepted to charge a consumption tax of only 5% on fuel used with respect to the Eagle Mountain property.
Gold Exploration Projects
Total expenditures by the Company on gold exploration projects in Guyana during 1998 amounted to $1.0 million, $0.1 million of which were reimbursed by the Company's joint venture partners. In 1997, total expenditures were $3.6 million, $0.1 million of which were reimbursed by joint venture partners.
In an effort to conserve cash resources, most exploration activity in Guyana has been temporarily suspended for 1999. Expenditures at the Company's Guyana operations are budgeted to be $0.2 million after recovery of bonds for certain properties and after sales of certain assets. The Company recorded a write-down of deferred exploration in the fourth quarter of 1998 of approximately $6.4 million related to projects in Guyana.
Makapa (Five Stars)
The Makapa project, part of the Five Stars area, in northwestern Guyana, was identified on the basis of work completed during the Company's 1994 and 1995 reconnaissance program. Access to the property is by canoe or helicopter. The Makapa prospecting license was granted to the Company in June 1996. The term of the license is three years, renewable twice for a period of up to one year each. The Company owns a 100% interest in the Makapa prospecting license.
During 1998, a limited core drilling program consisting of 17 holes totaling approximately 1,070 meters, was completed to test the strike and depth potential of quartz vein related gold mineralization previously defined through soil geochemistry, augering and trenching. The program failed to demonstrate potential for an economic bulk tonnage deposit. Based on the results, the Makapa project was put on care and maintenance in mid 1998 due to budget constraints and project prioritization. The larger Makapa Prospecting License remains prospective but will remain on care and maintenance until such time as further early stage exploration is warranted.
SURINAME PROPERTIES - -------------------
General
Suriname, a former Dutch colony, became independent in 1975. It has a surface area of 163,000 km2, a tropical climate and a population of approximately 470,000. The official language is Dutch with English spoken as a second, commercial and technical language. Suriname has a democratically elected government.
During 1998, the Company incurred total expenditures in Suriname of $2.0 million, $1.0 million of which was reimbursed by the Company's joint venture partners. Total expenditures during 1997 amounted to $11.8 million, $4.7 million of which was reimbursed by the Company's joint venture partners.
The Company's operations in Suriname in 1999 will consist primarily of care and maintenance for Gross Rosebel and continued engineering evaluation of the project. The Company's total Suriname expenditures in 1999 are budgeted to be approximately $0.5 million.
Gross Rosebel
Pursuant to a mineral agreement, dated May 8, 1992, as amended and restated on April 7, 1994 (the "Gross Rosebel Agreement"), between the Company, the Government of Suriname and the state mining company, Grasshopper Aluminum Company N.V. ("Grassalco"), Grassalco assigned to the Company its interest in the Gross Rosebel right of exploration, a 170 km2 area in north-central Suriname. The Gross Rosebel Agreement was ratified by the National Assembly of Suriname on March 1, 1994.
As partial consideration for the transfer of the Gross Rosebel right of exploration, the Company issued 60,000 common shares to Grassalco on June 28, 1994. Under the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement, the Company committed to expend an aggregate of $8.0 million on exploration activities over a five-year period commencing on May 8, 1992. As of May 8, 1997, the Company had spent approximately $25.8 million on the Gross Rosebel property and, as a result, fulfilled its expenditure requirement. Of the amounts expended by the Company, Cambior has contributed $14.1 million by way of joint venture recoveries (see discussion of Cambior Joint Venture below). In addition, in consideration for Grassalco making the Gross Rosebel property available for exploration, the Company paid $1.0 million to Grassalco pursuant to the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement . A feasibility study and an environmental impact statement were submitted to the Government of Suriname in May 1997.
Upon approval by the Suriname Government of the feasibility study and the environmental impact statement, the Gross Rosebel right of exploration may be converted into a right of exploitation for an initial term of 25 years. The right of exploitation is to be granted to an operating company (the "Operating Company"). Within 30 days of the
grant of the right of exploitation, the Company and Cambior will be obligated to pay to Grassalco the total sum of $2.5 million as compensation for previous exploration expenditures incurred by Grassalco.
Upon the grant of a right of exploitation to the Operating Company, Grassalco will have the option, for a period of 60 days, to purchase an undiluted 20% common share equity interest in the Operating Company by paying 20% of all exploration costs previously incurred by the Company and 20% of all subsequent costs of the Operating Company. Grassalco has a further option to purchase a second undiluted 20% interest in the shares of the Operating Company eight years following the date of commencement of commercial production (as defined in the Gross Rosebel Agreement) in consideration for the payment of a sum equal to 90% of the market value of such shares, as determined in accordance with the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement.
The Gross Rosebel Agreement provides that (i) a royalty of two percent of the gold produced from the Gross Rosebel property is payable in kind to Grassalco and (ii) an additional one-quarter of one percent royalty is payable for the life of the project to a charitable fund to promote national resources development in Suriname. In addition, a royalty of two percent of the proceeds received on any other minerals produced (less transportation and processing costs) is also payable to Grassalco. An advance royalty payment against the above-mentioned royalties of $6.5 million must be made to Grassalco within 90 days of receipt of the first proceeds from the sale of minerals at Gross Rosebel and a further $6.5 million must be made 12 months later. Further, in the event the price of gold exceeds $500 per ounce Grassalco is entitled to an additional 6.5% royalty on that portion of the sales price which exceeds $500 per ounce.
The Cambior Joint Venture
The Company entered into an agreement on June 7, 1994, pursuant to which Cambior was granted the option to earn an undivided 50% interest in the Company's rights in the Gross Rosebel Agreement and Gross Rosebel property. On January 8, 1996, Cambior announced its decision to exercise its option to acquire 50% of the Company's rights in the Gross Rosebel property after expending $6.0 million in exploration and development activities on the property, as required by the June 1994 option agreement. As also required, Cambior has advanced a further $2.5 million in expenditures to be repaid out of initial project earnings. Since April 1996, when Cambior earned a 50% interest in Gross Rosebel, the Company and Cambior have been contributing equally to programs and budgets with respect to the Gross Rosebel property.
Under the June 1994 option agreement, Cambior must use its best efforts to secure financing for at least 65% of eventual mine development costs from third parties. Cambior assumed managerial responsibility for the preparation of the feasibility study. Cambior has the right to be appointed manager of all subsequent mining and related operations of the project.
The Property
The Gross Rosebel right of exploration covers 170 km2 (17,000 ha.) and is located 80 km south of the capital city of Paramaribo. Access is via a paved highway followed by an all-weather laterite surface road. Gold was reportedly first discovered in the area in 1879 and since then more than half of Suriname's recorded production has been produced from the district by dredging and small artisanal surface and underground workings. Commencing in 1974, Surplacer N.V., a subsidiary of Placer Development, a Canadian mining company (now Placer Dome), conducted an extensive exploration program of trenching, hand augering and rotary drilling over a period of three years. Subsequent field work was conducted by Grassalco over a period of seven years and a feasibility study was prepared and completed in 1984 by a Canadian engineering firm controlled by Grassalco.
The Gross Rosebel right of exploration is underlain by Proterozoic Armina, Paramaca, and Rosebel metasedimentary and metavolcanic greenstone formations. These units are intruded by a large tonalitic stock near the southern boundary of the property, which has resulted in doming of the adjacent Armina rocks and the development of steep reverse faults. The greenstone units are folded into a broad east-west trending and westerly plunging synclinal structure. Gold mineralization associated with at least five generations of hydrothermal quartz
veins occur over large areas both in the south and north limbs of the syncline where these are cut by strong west-northwest trending shear zones. Locally, mineralization is controlled by zones of dilation along the shear planes and by drag folding. Intense tropical weathering has developed a residual surface laterite and saprolite profile of up to 50 m thick, overlying bedrock. Gold mineralization has been established by the Company within at least ten separate target areas including Royal Hill, Mayo, Rosebel, Koolhoven, Pay Caro, East Pay Caro, "J" Zone, Bigi Asanjangmoni, Mama Kreek and Spin Zone. All of these target areas are capped by mineralized laterite blankets typically between 3 to 10 m in thickness overlying less continuous shear and/or fold related mineralization in saprolite and bedrock. Both types of deposits are being defined for potential mining.
Mineralized Material
Cambior recently announced its year end 1998 mining reserves and mineral resources, restated at a $325 gold price, compared to a price of $350 per ounce for year end 1997. For year end 1997, both the Company and Cambior reported their 50% share of proven and probable mining reserves at Gross Rosebel, using a $350 gold price, as 17.6 million tonnes grading 1.8 g Au/t, representing 996,000 ounces in situ. At year end 1998, Cambior has estimated its 50% share of Gross Rosebel at 20.7 million tonnes grading 1.6 g Au/t, representing 1,074,500 ounces of gold in situ, using a $325 gold price, but reclassified them according to current Canadian Reporting Policy as "mineral resources" instead of proven and probable reserves. Under SEC rules and regulations in the United States unlike in Canada, companies may only report proven and probable reserves. The Company has not yet reviewed the estimate prepared by Cambior for year end 1998. The Company intends to have it verified, taking into account the parameters used in Cambior's re-estimation, a $325 gold price and the recently revised operating costs. As a result of Cambior's reclassification, the Company cannot report proven and probable reserves for the Gross Rosebel project for year-end 1998. Instead the Company is reporting results for Gross Rosebel as mineralized material. See "Item 1. - Mineralized Material Table".
Mineralized material does not represent reserves and has not been included in the Proven and Probable Reserve estimates because even though enough drilling and trenching indicate a sufficient amount and grade to warrant further exploration or development expenditures, these mineral deposits do not qualify under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission standards as being commercially minable until further drilling, metallurgical work and other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work are resolved.
Mine Development
A study was submitted to the Government of Suriname in May 1997. The study contained a description and analysis of the economic and commercial viability of bringing into production and operating a mine on Gross Rosebel assuming a gold price of between $380 and $400 during the life of the mine. Development of the Gross Rosebel project has been deferred pending receipt of necessary governmental approvals including approval of the feasibility study, resolution of several development issues, economic concessions from the government and improved gold prices. There can be no assurance that the government of Suriname will approve the feasibility study and the environmental impact statement and therefore grant a right of exploitation to the Operating Company. Some of the development issues that must be resolved prior to construction, include, amongst other things, the structure of the Operating Company, the ability to secure foreign investment insurance, availability of financing from banks and other financial institutions, and relocation of Nieuw Koffiekamp, a small village located within the concession. Although the Company believes that these issues can be resolved, there can be no assurance that will be the case. The project will continue to be on care and maintenance until the issues are resolved.
Metallurgical test were performed during 1998 on soft rock ore from Gross Rosebel. The tests have demonstrated favorable agglomeration and gold recovery characteristics for soft rock ore. Average recoveries of 88% were obtained over a 30 day leach cycle. Metallurgical tests were also completed on Gross Rosebel transition and hard rock ores, yielding average gold recoveries in the range of 40% to 50% over a 30 day period in heap leach column tests. These tests have also demonstrated that crushing to -19mm does not significantly improve gold recoveries.
For 1999, engineering costs of $194,000 are budgeted for scoping studies which will consider heap leaching alternatives as well as other saprolite-only and staged development mining alternatives. These studies are intended to determine the viability of alternative processing designs which may make the project feasible at lower gold prices by reducing capital and operating costs. These studies are anticipated to be completed by mid 1999 and will determine scope of further evaluation work and/or development programs.
Antino
The Antino property covers an area of approximately 240 km2 and is located in the Sipaliwini District in southeastern Suriname along the Lawa River, on the western border of French Guiana, in the locality of Benzdorp. Benzdorp, a former gold trade center, is 240 km southeast of Paramaribo and 220 km south and upstream from Albina on the lower Marowijne River (also called Maroni River in French Guiana).
Gold bearing alluvials in the area of the Antino property were discovered in 1885. From 1895 to 1928 the Compagnie d'Or de la Guyane Hollandaise recorded production of 9,854 kg of gold from the property. During the period from 1928 to 1963, a further 2,657 kg of gold were reportedly produced. Some dredging was carried out from 1963 to 1969, after which activity was limited to local artisanal miners.
Access to the area is by air or boat. Small fixed wing aircraft may land at a maintained grass strip on an island in the Lawa River in front of the Benzdorp landing or on a recently constructed 600 metre dirt strip on the property. The entire eastern boundary of the Antino property is accessible from the Lawa River. Access into the current exploration site is by 30 km of wilderness road passable by four wheel drive vehicles. The main camp at Fatoe Switie is 17 km from the Benzdorp landing. The camp is fully equipped for up to 37 persons.
Pursuant to a letter dated January 22, 1993 the Company entered into a service contract with a local company regarding the right of reconnaissance known in Suriname as "South Benzdorp". The essential terms of the letter agreement were restated in an option agreement in 1994, by which the Company was granted the option to acquire, subject to governmental approval, a 100% interest in any right of exploration to be issued pursuant to the South Benzdorp right of reconnaissance. Assuming exercise of the South Benzdorp option, the Company must complete a feasibility study six months prior to the expiration of such rights or any extension thereof or reassign the right of exploration to the local company. In the event the Company or a related party enters into a mineral agreement with the Government of Suriname with respect to any portion of the right of exploration, the Company will be obligated to pay the local company the sum of $50,000. The Company has also agreed to grant the local company a 10% net profits interest with respect to any portion of the right of exploration which may be brought into commercial production, subject to the Company's right to repurchase half of such entitlement, within 60 days of obtaining a right of exploitation, for the sum of $3.0 million.
Antino represents the northernmost portion of the former 194,000 hectares South Benzdorp right of reconnaissance. It is where the Antino Right of exploration was granted to the same local company in 1996 for a period of three years. The Antino Right may be extended until 2005. The option is valid until the expiration of such right of exploration and any extension thereof. The Company has met its minimum expenditure requirement of $250,000 and as a result, the Company may, subject to governmental approval, at any time prior to its expiration, exercise its option to acquire a 100% interest in the Antino right of exploration. The Company has spent approximately $2.1 million in the Antino project area since its initial involvement in 1993.
Core drilling in 1996 and 1997 consisted of 46 holes totaling approximately 6,320 meters which identified relatively high grade shear hosted gold mineralization over approximately 800 meters of strike length. The Antino project remained on care and maintenance during 1998 following the Company's budgeting and prioritization process and the determination of relatively high expected exploration costs to define reserves in narrow, high grade underground targets such as Antino. Management believes that further drilling is warranted at Antino and continues to assess cost-effective means of continuing exploration, including seeking a joint venture partner for the property.
BHP Reconnaissance Joint Venture in Suriname
On August 19, 1996, the Company entered into a heads of agreement with BHP Mineral International Exploration Inc. ("BHP") covering several projects in Suriname. The projects include areas covered by applications for rights of reconnaissance filed or to be filed with the Government of Suriname by the Company and BHP. The project areas may be modified by the parties from time to time. The August 1996 heads of agreement provides that BHP will have a 60% participating interest and the Company a 40% participating interest in any joint venture to be formed with respect to a specific area. BHP and the Company participate jointly in the exploration costs of each different project area on the basis of their respective deemed participating interest in any future joint venture with respect to such area. BHP and the Company may each withdraw from the agreement upon 30 days' notice.
During 1998, work was conducted on the BHP joint venture areas, particularly the Saramacca area, which hosts the Goliath anomaly identified in 1997. This work included follow up soil sampling involving a MMI (mobile metal ion) survey over previously defined BLEG (bulk leach extractable gold) anomalies and deep augering. Results provided two targets that warranted follow up. A reverse circulation drilling program of 41 holes, totaling approximately 1,170 meters, was completed over the anomalies but failed to produce any significant results.
In mid 1998, BHP relinquished its interest in the Tempati, Ulemari and part of the Sarramacca areas. The Company is free to pursue exploration at these projects when warranted. The joint venture retains an interest in several areas in Suriname including Klein Sarramacca and the Tapanahony/Tempati and Western Suriname reconnaissance areas. Exploration rights over several areas in Suriname have yet to be finalized and the joint venture does not intend to initiate further work programs until such time as these exploration rights are secured.
FRENCH GUIANA PROPERTIES - ------------------------
General
French Guiana is part of the French national territory and has been an overseas "Departement" of France since 1946. The Departement, with an area of 84,000 km2 and a population of approximately 130,000, has two representatives in the French National Assembly and one representative in the French Senate. Under the French Constitution, French Guiana is governed by the same laws as metropolitan France, subject to modifications (including those affecting tax and mining laws and regulations) that may be adopted to reflect the historical, cultural, geographical and economic characteristics of French Guiana and provide for regional administration. French mining laws have recently undergone revisions insofar as they apply to metropolitan France. The application decrees determining the extent to which the new French Mining Code, with some modifications, applies in the French overseas departments (including French Guiana) have not been adopted yet. An appointed Prefect, representing the Government of France, holds governmental and administrative powers locally. A 19-member, locally-elected General Council votes on departmental budget and other local matters.
The granting of mining titles in French Guiana is administered, depending upon the type of mining title, by the Direction Regionale de l'Industrie, de la Recherche et de l'Environnement ("DRIRE"), the Ministry of Industry or the Conseil d'Etat. There are two different types of mining titles under French law as it currently applies in French Guiana: permits and concessions. An exploration permit conveys for a specific area of land the exclusive right of prospection and exploration for the substances to which it relates. There are two types of exploration permits, the most common of which is the "B" type permit. Type "B" permits are valid for two years and renewable twice for periods of two years each. The type "B" permit relates to a square area of 25 km2 each. Type "A" permits are valid for five years and can be renewed at least once for an additional five year term. The holder of an exploration permit, whether A or B, is entitled to the issuance of an exploitation permit if such holder has demonstrated the presence of an exploitable mineral deposit within the area covered by the exploration permit. Exploitation permits are granted for a term of four years and are automatically renewed if production is actually taking place.
A mineral concession confers upon its holder an immovable right, which is distinct from the actual ownership of the underlying land for a term of up to 50 years. Concessions may be mortgaged, leased, sold or otherwise transferred or inherited, in whole or in part and may be merged or subdivided, subject to authorization for the transaction being granted by a decree issued by the French government after consultation with specific agencies.
Guyanor Ressources S.A.
All of the Company's mineral interests in French Guiana are held through Guyanor, a societe anonyme incorporated under the laws of France on April 20, 1993. Guyanor's head and registered offices are located at Lot. Calimbe 2, Route du Tigre, B.P. 750, 97300 Cayenne, French Guiana.
Guyanor has interests (either directly or through its subsidiaries) in the St- Elie, Yaou, Dorlin, Paul-Isnard, Eau-Blanche and Dachine properties. All of the properties are in the exploration stage, except the Yaou and Dorlin projects which are currently undergoing comprehensive development studies.
During 1998, Guyanor spent $4.7 million in continuing exploration and acquisition expenditures, of which $1.2 million were reimbursed by joint venture partners and $3.5 million was advanced by the Company. As of December 31, 1998, Guyanor owed $3.3 million to the Company. In 1997, Guyanor had spent $11.9 million, $10.0 million of which was reimbursed by joint venture partners. Total budgeted exploration expenditures by Guyanor for 1999 are $2.4 million. The Company has committed, subject to availability of adequate funding, to continue funding on a reasonable best effort basis the operations of Guyanor during 1999.
Yaou and Dorlin
Pursuant to an agreement dated July 16, 1993, the Company acquired from BHP for $4.3 million a 63.3% participating interest in a joint venture between BHP and BRGM with respect to six type "B" exploration permits covering an area known as Yaou (the "Yaou Permits") and six type "B" exploration permits covering an area known as Dorlin (the "Dorlin Permits") in French Guiana. In August 1993, the Company transferred its 63.3% participating interest in the joint venture to Guyanor at cost. Further to an agreement dated August 3, 1993, between the Company and BRGM and a subsequent agreement, dated September 23, 1993, among the Company, Guyanor and BRGM, Guyanor acquired for $2.5 million BRGM's 36.7% interest in the joint venture assets owned for the benefit of the joint venture by BRGM. In addition, Guyanor agreed to pay to BRGM a further FF14.0 million (approximately $2.8 million) as follows: FF7.0 million at the time of completion of a bankable feasibility study on either the Yaou or Dorlin properties and FF7.0 million at the time of commencement of commercial production on either of these properties. The transfer of the Yaou and Dorlin Permits from BRGM to Guyanor was approved by the relevant French regulatory authorities on May 25, 1994. Both BHP and BRGM are arms' length parties to Guyanor and the Company.
Guyanor and the Company entered into an option agreement with Cambior, dated as of May 11, 1994, pursuant to which Cambior was granted the option to acquire a 50% interest in an operating company which would hold the Yaou and Dorlin Permits in French Guiana. Cambior exercised the option after having spent the $11.0 million expenditure commitment in September 1997. Since then, expenditures have been funded equally by Cambior and Guyanor. The acquisition by Cambior of any interest in the Yaou and Dorlin Permits is subject to French governmental approval. There can be no assurance that such approval will be granted. Cambior is responsible for the preparation of a feasibility study on the properties and will, if warranted, manage the development and operation of future mining operations.
Two of the 12 type "B" permits initially granted expired in February 1998. The remaining ten type "B" permits will expire in March and May 1999 and will no longer be renewable. The Societe Miniere Yaou-Dorlin ("SMYD"), a French company, was recently created. The ten remaining type "B" permits will, subject to governmental approval, be transferred to SMYD. Cambior and Guyanor will each hold 50% of the shares of SMYD. In addition, in order to preserve their rights to the Yaou and Dorlin properties, Guyanor and Cambior through their new
subsidiary, SMYD, intend to file prior to March 31, 1999 an application for two mining concessions which would cover the Yaou and Dorlin properties. Under French law, an application for a mining concession must be supported by studies, called "Memoires Techniques." The studies must provide a comprehensive framework for the development of each project, including preliminary engineering, environmental impact assessments and economic analysis of development options.
The Properties
The Yaou Permits currently cover a total area of 100 km2 (10,000 ha.) and are located some 210 km southwest of Cayenne. Access to the property is by helicopter or four wheel drive vehicle on 17 km of dirt road from the town of Maripasoula, which is accessible by chartered and daily scheduled fixed-wing aircraft from Cayenne.
The Dorlin Permits cover a total area of 150 km2 (15,000 ha.) and are located some 180 km southwest of Cayenne and 60 km east of Maripasoula. The property is accessible by helicopter. A 500 m airstrip located on the property is suitable for fixed wing aircraft. Access is also available by boat during the rainy season.
Work Program
During 1998, efforts at Yaou and Dorlin focused on reinterpretation of all geologic data, especially new core drilling data from late 1997 programs, and re-estimation of mineralized material at each project. Metallurgical test work was carried out for both Yaou and Dorlin to evaluate processing alternatives and field visits were made to begin examining possible layouts for potential mining and processing operations. This activity and other environmental and engineering work was in support of the "Memoires Techniques", or development studies, required for planned mining concession applications. The studies were initiated in the second half of 1998 and are expected to be completed by March 31, 1999. The current development concept under evaluation involves consideration of a 10,000 tonne per day milling operation at Yaou and concurrent development of a 5,000 tonne per day heap leach operation for soft rock mineralization at Dorlin. Following completion of mining at Yaou, the milling facilities would be moved to Dorlin, approximately 45 kilometers east of Yaou, where hard rock mining and milling would then begin. The studies will serve as the basis for the mining concession applications, which if granted, will preserve Guyanor's rights in the properties through the conversion of the exploration permits into mining concession. There can be no assurance that any of these applications will be granted or that the projects will be economically feasible.
During 1998, Guyanor's expenditures on Yaou and Dorlin totaled $2.1 million, $0.7 million of which was reimbursed by Cambior under the above-mentioned agreement. During 1997, Guyanor spent a total of $5.5 million on the Yaou project, of which $4.7 million was reimbursed by Cambior. Guyanor has budgeted $0.6 million in 1999 for its shares of expenditures at Yaou and Dorlin.
Mineralized Material
Cambior recently announced its year end 1998 mining reserves and mineral resources (mineralized material), restated at a $325 gold price compared to a price of $350 per ounce for year end 1997. For year end 1997, both Guyanor and Cambior reported their 50% share of mineral resources (mineralized material) at Yaou / Dorlin, using a $350 gold price, as 8.4 million tonnes grading 1.9 g/t. At year end 1998, Cambior has estimated its 50% share of Yaou / Dorlin, using a $325 gold price, as 8.2 million tonnes grading 1.9g/t.
The above results reflect work performed by Cambior to investigate the potential of mining these mineral deposits. Open pits have been modeled using reasonable slopes and using average mining and milling costs for Yaou of $1.10 per tonne and $7.50 per tonne respectively and using average mining and milling costs for Dorlin of $0.90 per tonne and $6.50 per tonne respectively. These results only reflect mineralized material from within the pits modeled.
The Company is reporting these results as mineralized material. Mineralized material does not represent reserves and has not been included in the Proven and Probable Reserve estimates because even though enough drilling and
trenching indicate a sufficient amount and grade to warrant further exploration or development expenditures, these mineral deposits do not qualify under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission standards as being commercially minable until further drilling, metallurgical work and other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work are resolved.
Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche
On October 29, 1994, Guyanor acquired an interest in the Paul-Isnard and Eau- Blanche properties by way of the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Societe de Travaux Publics et de Mines Auriferes en Guyane ("SOTRAPMAG"). SOTRAPMAG holds, directly or indirectly, eight mineral concessions (the "Paul- Isnard Concessions") and four type "B" exploration permits (the "Eau-Blanche Permits"). One of the type "B" permits was relinquished in September 1998. An application for a type "A" exploration permit covering an area of approximately 326 km2 was filed by Guyanor in January 1996 but it has not yet been granted. The type "A" permit would include the area covered by the four type "B" permits as well as a new area adjacent to the Paul-Isnard property. There can be no assurance that the type "A" exploration permit will be granted.
Joint Venture with ASARCO and LaSource
In conjunction with Guyanor's acquisition of SOTRAPMAG, BRGM relinquished its rights under an option from Alcatel Alsthom Compagnie Generale d'Electricite to acquire any primary deposit located within the Paul-Isnard Concessions. In consideration therefore, Guyanor paid to BRGM the sum of FF2.5 million (approximately $505,000) and LaSource Developpement S.A., a company affiliated to BRGM ("LaSource"), received an initial 25% participating interest in two joint ventures for the exploration and exploitation of primary gold deposits on the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects. Pursuant to joint venture and option agreements entered into on June 26, 1996 by ASARCO, LaSource and Guyanor, ASARCO had the right to acquire a 50% interest in SOTRAPMAG's remaining interest in the primary deposits on each of the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects. After discussions with Guyanor regarding the 1998 budget, ASARCO decided in May 1998 to withdraw from the joint venture. Under a termination and settlement agreement between Guyanor and ASARCO, ASARCO paid $0.4 to Guyanor. ASARCO spent a total of $4.3 million under the joint venture agreement on the Paul-Isnard and Eau Blanche projects.
As at December 31, 1998, Guyanor's interest in the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects had increased to approximately 90% as a result of LaSource's decision to not contribute its share of 1997 and 1998 exploration expenditures. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, if LaSource's participating interest decreases below 10%, LaSource's interest converts to a 2.5% of net profits interest in each respective project.
The Properties
The Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche properties are located in the western part of French Guiana, some 200 km west of Cayenne. The properties are accessed from St-Laurent-du-Maroni, either by air, at a distance of 75 km to the south, or by means of a 115 km-long laterite road. The first 62 km section of this road is maintained by the government and the remaining 53 km section by SOTRAPMAG.
There are two prominent mountain chains bordering the properties which form the edges of a basin in which alluvial gold deposits have accumulated. Management believes this alluvial gold originated from gold-bearing rocks from the Decou- Decou and Lucifer mountains and was transported downward by high-energy streams, concentrating the gold in the gravel beds of streams in the Citron area of the Paul-Isnard property. The Decou-Decou mountain to the south of the property is formed of volcanic rocks that, at the summit, are covered by degraded lateritic layers. The Lucifer mountain to the north-east is formed of basic intrusive rocks. The basin between the mountains is underlain by a Proterozoic sequence of mafic to felsic volcanics and clastic sediments of the Paramaca and Bonidoro groups, cut by ultramafic to felsic intrusives.
Work Program
Guyanor began an exploration program in 1995 to identify what may have contributed to the formation of the alluvial gold deposits in the Paul-Isnard area followed by a core drilling program in 1996. During the first half of 1997, a ground geophysical survey, involving induced polarization, resistivity and magnetism, was carried out over the mineralized felsic unit. A second and third phase core drilling program were also completed during 1997.
On January 15, 1998, the Company and Guyanor jointly announced the results from the third phase of core drilling over the Montagne d'Or target at Paul-Isnard conducted during the second half of 1997. Twenty holes were completed during the third phase of drilling, totaling approximately 4,134 metres, with the aim of infill drilling over the known strike length of the Montagne d'Or volcanic massive sulfide (VMS) system and step out drilling to test for further strike extension, primarily to the east. All but two of the 20 holes encountered significant gold mineralization exhibiting a weighted average grade of approximately 4.6 g Au/t (high values cut to 30 g Au/t) over an average mineralized interval of approximately 5.7 metres. Three styles of gold mineralization have been confirmed at Montagne d'Or: (i) steeply dipping, semi- massive to massive sulfide zones and adjacent alteration, (ii) steeply dipping zones of disseminated sulfide mineralization, and (iii) coarse gold associated with steeply dipping quartz veins and adjacent alteration.
During the second half of 1998, Guyanor completed a geophysical survey and a limited follow-up core drilling campaign to identify and confirm semi-massive sulfide mineralization (SMS) previously intercepted in the Montagne d'Or deposit located on the Paul-Isnard property in French Guiana. Eight core holes, totaling approximately 1,600 meters, were completed to test the most robust geophysical conductors. SMS mineralization was intercepted in seven of the eight holes drilled, thereby confirming the results of the geophysical survey. The SMS zones intercepted yielded a weighted average gold grade (uncut) of 23.1 g Au/t over an average length of 1.1 meters, which were included in an average mineralized interval around these SMS zones exhibiting a weighted average grade of 4.2 g Au/t (uncut) over an average length of 6.4 meters. The results are consistent with previous drilling and have improved the confidence level for both geologic and grade continuity by reducing the drill hole spacing to a nominal 50 meters over 400 meters of strike length in the eastern half of the Montagne d'Or deposit.
Total expenditures in 1998 were $1.0 million for Paul-Isnard and $0.1 million for Eau-Blanche, of which $0.1 million were reimbursed by ASARCO. Total expenditures in 1997 were $1.8 million for Paul-Isnard and $0.1 million for Eau- Blanche all of which was funded by ASARCO.
Exploration expenditures for Paul-Isnard of approximately $0.5 million are budgeted for 1999. Efforts in 1999 will focus primarily on identification of additional targets to supplement what had been previously outlined at Montagne d'Or. Work will include follow-up geochemical evaluation and trenching at the Elysee target, northwest of the Montagne d'Or deposit and continued evaluation of the Montagne d'Or VMS setting. Additional work may include, subject to availability of funding, an airborne geophysical survey of the entire project area to investigate the possibility of additional geologic settings similar to that found at Montagne d'Or.
Mineralized Material
In February 1998, the Company and Guyanor announced the completion of geologic modeling for the Montagne d'Or zone for the purpose of estimating mineralized inventory. This was followed by the results of an internal estimate published in the same month. A new estimate was prepared in August 1998 using more appropriate parameters taking into consideration the overall confidence of the geologic model and grade estimations given the wide spaced drilling information for the project. These studies identified the application of several inappropriate parameters in the February estimate which led to an over- estimation of open pit mineralized inventory and, to a much lesser degree, geologic inventories. The revised estimates were independently reviewed and confirmed by SRK Consulting, an international mining consulting firm, in a report dated September 3, 1998. The restatement reduced open pit mineralized inventory at the Montagne d'Or deposit at Paul Isnard from 16.3 million tonnes grading 2.5 g Au/t to 4.6 million tonnes grading 2.6 g Au/t. Geologic mineralized inventory were modified from
28.6 million tonnes grading 2.0 g Au/t to 34.7 million tonnes grading 1.4 g Au/t. Both estimates used a gold price of $350 per ounce.
In February 1999, Guyanor updated its geologic model following the extension of one drillhole and the addition of eight drillholes. A new estimate was taking account of the additional information gained from the drilling program and the subsequent increase in confidence. Open pits were modeled using reasonable slopes and using average mining and milling cost of $1.10 per tonne and $9.10 per tonne respectively. The Company has estimated its 64% share of Paul-Isnard, using a $325 gold price, as 3.9 million tonnes grading 2.8 g/t. This report only reflects mineralized material estimated to be present within the open pits modeled by the Company.
The Company is reporting these results as mineralized material. Mineralized material does not represent reserves and has not been included in the Proven and Probable Reserve estimates because even though enough drilling and trenching indicate a sufficient amount and grade to warrant further exploration or development expenditures, these mineral deposits do not qualify under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission standards as being commercially minable until further drilling, metallurgical work and other economic and technical feasibility factors based upon such work are resolved.
St-Elie
On October 25, 1993, Guyanor entered into an agreement to acquire the St-Elie concession for FF1.0 million (approximately $0.2 million). Guyanor also paid approximately $0.9 million to Compagnie Miniere Esperance S.A. ("CME") in consideration for the relinquishment of certain contractual rights which CME held in the St-Elie concession. The aggregate amount of $1.1 million represented the Company's original expenditure for the St-Elie concession and was satisfied by Guyanor's issuance of a $1.1 million promissory note payable to the Company. This amount was canceled in March 1995 in consideration for the issuance to the Company of Guyanor shares. Pursuant to an agreement dated October 22, 1993, CME agreed to relinquish to Guyanor certain residual alluvial exploitation rights in consideration for $0.5 million and a royalty of 5% of any fine gold extracted from the concession, up to a maximum of 3,215 ounces.
By agreement dated February 18, 1995, Guyanor transferred to ASARCO Guyane Francaise S.A.R.L. ("ASARCO") a 50% equity interest in Societe des Mines de St- Elie S.A.R.L. ("SMSE"), a company then wholly owned by Guyanor and to which the St-Elie concession was later transferred by decree of the French government dated April 24, 1996. Pursuant to the new mining code, when adopted, the concession will expire on December 31, 2018 but will be renewable for an additional period of up to 25 years. Under the agreement, $5.4 million was spent on the St-Elie and Dieu Merci projects in 1996 and 1997, all of which was paid by ASARCO. After discussion with Guyanor regarding the 1998 budget, ASARCO decided in May 1998 to withdraw from the St-Elie and Dieu Merci projects. Under the termination and settlement agreement between Guyanor and ASARCO, ASARCO paid Guyanor $0.6 million and ASARCO's shares in SMSE were transferred back to Guyanor. As a result, Guyanor presently holds a 100% interest in SMSE.
On February 19, 1997, SMSE and TEXMINE S.A., a French company ("Texmine") entered into an agreement pursuant to which SMSE was granted the four-year option to acquire a 100% undivided interest in three concessions and one exploration permit immediately adjacent to the St-Elie property and covering a 155 km2 (15,500 ha.) area known in French Guiana as Dieu-Merci. In order to maintain its rights under the Dieu-Merci option, SMSE had to (i) make payments of FF4.0 million ($0.7 million) in year one, FF1.5 million ($0.2 million) in year two, FF2.5 million ($0.4 million) in year three and FF2.5 million ($0.4 million) in year four and (ii) incur minimum expenditures on the Dieu-Merci property of FF5.5 million ($0.9 million) (including a 3,000 metre core drilling campaign) during year one and FF5.0 million ($0.8 million) during each subsequent year of the option period.
On December 17, 1998, SMSE notified TEXMINE of its intention to terminate the Dieu-Merci option agreement. After several attempts to substantially reduce or eliminate the minimum commitments and property payments specified in the agreement failed, SMSE decided to withdraw from the option agreement. Management felt that, in the current business climate where cost reduction is a priority, it should instead focus its efforts on the Yaou, Dorlin,
St-Elie and Paul-Isnard projects. Following the termination of the option agreement, the owner of the Dieu-Merci project has demanded from SMSE payment of the sum of 2,000,000 French Francs (approximately $350,000), which according to the French company is owed to it in spite of the termination of the option agreement. SMSE does not believe that such sum is owed and, will defend itself vigorously against any legal action which the French company may take to obtain payment. There can be no assurance, however, that SMSE will be successful.
As a result of the decision to withdraw from the Dieu-Merci option agreement, Guyanor recorded a write-down in the fourth quarter of 1998 of $0.9 million of deferred exploration expenditures relating to Dieu-Merci. The termination of the Dieu-Merci option agreement had no material impact on the Company's reported mineralized material.
The Property
The St-Elie concession was originally constituted by the government of France in 1889 and covers a rectangular area of 99 km2 (9,900 ha.) located in north central French Guiana, 110 km west of Cayenne, the departmental capital. The Dieu-Merci property covers an area of 155 km2 (15,500 ha.) adjacent to the eastern and southeastern portions of the St-Elie concession. St-Elie is located in a virtually undeveloped region of French Guiana. Access to the concession is by helicopter, airplane, or by a recently completed 20 km private road from Tigre Creek.
Work Program
During 1998, Guyanor's exploration expenditures on St-Elie amounted to $0.7 million, of which $0.3 was reimbursed by ASARCO pursuant to the termination and settlement agreement. During 1997, Guyanor's exploration spending on the St- Elie and Dieu-Merci projects totaled $3.3 million, all of which were reimbursed by ASARCO.
Guyanor has budgeted exploration expenses of approximately $0.5 million at St- Elie during 1999. Exploration will focus on continued shallow auger and geochemical evaluation of an area representing approximately 75% of the St-Elie concession that has not yet been explored with the objective of defining new targets for more advanced exploration.
Mineralized Material
The review of the estimates of mineralized inventory for the Michel Zone on the St-Elie project previously reported in February 1998 found that several inappropriate parameters led to the over estimation of mineralized material at St-Elie. A new geologic model and estimation of the mineralized material was completed. The new estimate is less than 50% of the February estimate, however, the reduction in mineralized material at St-Elie does not affect the Company's proven and probable mining reserves. Furthermore, the February estimate for St- Elie accounts for approximately 3% of total geologic mineralized material for the Company, therefore, the February estimates and the new lower estimates for St-Elie are not considered material in relation to the Company's total mineralized material. As a result, estimates of mineralized material at St-Elie will no longer be reported unless they become material.
Dachine
The Dachine property is a square, 5x5 km area accessible only by helicopter or, during the rainy season, by canoe from Maripasoula. Microdiamonds were found for the first time in 1983 in alluvium/colluvium by BRGM during strategic prospecting work for the Mineral Inventory of French Guiana. No further exploration was conducted at Dachine until Guyanor, after examining the existing literature and conducting preliminary reconnaissance in the field, was granted a type "B" exploration permit by the French government covering a 25 km2 area in southwest French Guiana known as Dachine (formerly known as Inini). An application was filed in December of 1995 for a type "A" permit covering an area of 337 km2 which would include the current type "B" permit. As of today, the type "A" permit has not been granted.
In 1996 and 1997, Guyanor completed an alluvial bulk sampling program under an agreement it had with BHP Minerals International ("BHP"). A second alluvial bulk sampling program commenced after the withdrawal of BHP was completed in December 1997. The second program, designed to quickly and cost effectively recover diamonds, was intended to firstly, establish the clear presence of macrodiamonds and secondly, yield a large enough parcel, though not necessarily representative of the deposit in situ, so as to establish a preliminary distribution and quality range of macrodiamonds at Dachine.
Thirteen samples ranging in size from 3 to 17.9 bank cubic metres were collected from three creeks, one of which is located on the Dachine body while the other two are located within one kilometre to the east and west of the body. Due to logistical and budget constraints, only 27.1 cubic metres, or 32% of the total collected sample, was processed. A total of 5,142 macrodiamonds greater than 1.0 mm as measured by round aperture Antwerp sieve were recovered, ranging in size to just over 4.5mm, or 0.88 carats, and yielding a total of 73.93 carats. The size distribution of the diamonds is fairly log normal indicating the possibility that larger stones may exist. The value of the stones, which were examined by two experts in Canada and Europe, was estimated in the $1 to $3 per carat range. Diamond quality is a critical aspect for the Dachine project. The project was put on care and maintenance in 1998. The next phase of exploration at Dachine would consist of geological mapping and drilling to further characterize the diamond and facies variability within the body identified by the 1996 core drilling. The Company and Guyanor are continuing their efforts to secure a joint venture partner to advance the project. Until then, the project will continue to be on care and maintenance.
In 1998, $0.2 million was spent for the care and maintenance of the project. During 1997, $0.7 million were spent on exploration and other holding costs.
BRAZIL PROPERTIES - -----------------
Brazil is the fifth largest country in the world with an area of 8,510,700 km2. Most of the country is located in the tropics. The Amazon River system drains over one-half of Brazil's area. Brazil has a population of approximately 160 million and is divided into 26 states and a Federal District where the capital city of Brasilia is located. Brazil declared its independence in 1822. From 1964 to 1985, although under a military regime, Brazil experienced considerable economic growth and development. In 1985, the country returned to a democratic system. A new Constitution was implemented in 1988. Even though Brazil has a free enterprise system, there is still considerable state and semi-state participation in various strategic sectors, such as transportation and utilities. Special legislation has been enacted to privatize many companies, but the process is moving slowly. The government has recently been successful in reducing the rate of inflation. Brazil hosts the world's largest deposit, and is the world's largest producer of iron ore. Major export products include soybeans, orange juice, cocoa, coffee and manufactured goods. The Company's property interests in Brazil are located in the central and eastern Amazon region. The administrative offices of the Company are located in Brasilia. The Company has two projects in Brazil: Abacaxis and Andorinhas.
Abacaxis
The Abacaxis property covers approximately 30,000 ha. and is located approximately 270 km southeast of the city of Manaus, in the District of Maues, State of Amazonas, Brazil. It is accessible by boat, small fixed-wing aircraft or helicopter. Abacaxis is in the Tapajos area, which is one of the most actively worked areas mined by garimpeiros in Brazil. At Abacaxis, narrow quartz-sulfide-gold veins cut Proterozoic metasedimentary rocks. The veins are reported to be exceptionally high grade, at more than 30 g Au/t. Adjacent wall rocks also locally contain anomalous values of gold with as much as 2 to 4 g Au/t. The area is at the margin of a failed Proterozoic rift that may have been remobilized during younger tectonic events.
The Company indirectly acquired a working right and five-year option to acquire 100% of the right, title and interest of Matapi and Ourobras to three "alvaras", or exploration licenses, issued in favor of Matapi, collectively known as the Abacaxis property. Ourobras has a preexisting joint venture agreement with Matapi with respect to the Abacaxis property. In order to keep its option and working right in force, the Company has to: (i) pay Matapi
approximately $150,000 on December 1, 1997 and $0.3 million on December 1, 1998 and (ii) incur expenditures on the property of at least $0.2 million by June 19, 1997, an aggregate of $0.5 million by June 19, 1998, an aggregate of $1.1 million by June 19, 1999 and an aggregate of $2.0 million by June 19, 2000. In December 1998, the option agreement was amended and the December 1998 payments were revised as follow: $150,000 will be due each on June 1, 1999 and on December 1, 1999. The Company paid Matapi and Ourobras approximately $0.4 million to date in connection with the option and incurred $2.1 million in exploration expenditures.
Work plans for 1999 in Brazil consist primarily of completing the Abacaxis drilling program initiated in late 1998. A 1,700 m drilling program was just completed in early March at a cost of approximately $200,000. The Company will be reviewing the data and evaluating means of continuing exploration beyond the first quarter program, including seeking a joint venture partner.
Andorinhas
The Andorinhas project covers approximately 25,000 ha. and is located in the state of Para in the eastern Amazon near the town of Rio Maria, approximately 150 km south of the Carajas district. It is accessible by paved road to Rio Maria and then dirt road for 35 km. Scheduled planes service the city of Redencao about 100 km south of Rio Maria.
Under an agreement with Companhia Vale do Rio Doce ("CVRD") entered into in May 1996, the Company (through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Southern Star Resources Ltd.) earned the exclusive right to a 50% participating interest in an association with CVRD to be created to exploit any gold discovered on the property. This right is conditional upon the Company matching CVRD's previous exploration expenditures of R5.2 million (approximately $4.6 million, subject to monthly adjustments to account for Brazilian inflation), completion of a positive feasibility study, and CVRD obtaining any necessary legal or governmental approvals to form an association for development and exploitation of a mine on the property. Upon making exploration expenditures of R5.2 million, the Company and CVRD must share equally in all remaining exploration and development costs or suffer dilution. Under the agreement, the Company must also evidence by November 2000 the existence of measured and/or indicated resources of approximately 1,000,000 oz. failing which the agreement will be automatically terminated. The Company has the right to terminate the agreement and let its right to form an association lapse without any further obligations at any time. In December of 1997, the Company met its R5.2 million expenditure commitment on the property. On or about January 30, 1998, CVRD indicated to the Company that it does not intend to contribute in the future its share of the programs and budgets for the project and may therefore be diluted. CVRD may change however its position in the future and elect to contribute its then proportional interest to expenditures.
As part of the agreement with CVRD, and in lieu of cash property payments to CVRD, the Company had also to reach agreements with the surface owners and occupants of portions of the land covered by the three exploration licenses comprising Andorinhas in connection with its exercise of the exploration activities. Agreements were reached with several key land owners to acquire improvements and surface right over the three principal target areas on the property, Mamao, Babacu and Lagoa Seca. Approximately $1.3 million was paid out pursuant to these agreements in 1997 and 1998.
The agreement with the key land owners contemplated the payment by the Company of approximately $5 million over the next two years. On November 5, 1998, the Company notified these land owners of its intention to terminate its agreement with them pursuant to which it acquired improvements and surface rights over the three principal target areas on the Andorinhas property. After several attempts to negotiate substantial reductions in these property payments with the land owners failed, the Company decided to withdraw from the agreement. Management believed that, in the current business climate where cost reduction is a priority, it was more justified to spend funds on other projects.
In February 1999, the Company sold the Santa Ines farm and certain equipment to its former owners in consideration for the reimbursement of the amount of the purchase price already paid to the former owners up to the date of termination and the release of any liability the Company may have had to the land owners in connection with the termination of the agreement mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
The Andorinhas project is being put on care and maintenance. The Company incurred a write-down in the fourth quarter of 1998 of approximately $9.1 million of deferred exploration expenditures related to the Andorinhas project and other activities in Brazil. Total 1999 budgeted expenditures in Brazil, including certain closure and other administration costs, are estimated to be $0.4 million.
AFRICAN PROPERTIES - ------------------
General
All of the Company's interests in mineral properties located in Africa are held through PARC. PARC was established under the Business Corporations Act (Yukon Territory) on February 6, 1996. PARC is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, as a result of the Company acquiring the 19,429,282 shares of PARC held by the minority shareholders who received in exchange 388,574 common shares issued by the Company. This transaction became effective on April 21, 1998.
During 1998, approximately $1.3 million was spent on exploration in Africa as compared to $3.1 million in 1997. The Company has budgeted $0.1 million for exploration and administration for its remaining projects in Africa for 1999.
Ivory Coast
The Republique de Cote d'Ivoire ("Ivory Coast"), located on the southern coastline of West Africa, covers an area of 322,000 km2 with a population of about 12 million people. Formerly a French colony, Ivory Coast achieved independence in 1960 and is currently governed as a democratic republic. The legal and land title systems of the country are based on French law and the official language is French.
The Company has currently three exploration permits all of which are accessible by paved road from Abidjan, the principal city in Ivory Coast. Seven exploration permits were relinquished in 1998. The exploration permits are valid for three years and are renewable twice for two additional years. At the time of each renewal, 50% of the permit area must be relinquished. The minimum expenditure requirements for the three remaining permits vary from approximately $240,000 to $2,200,000 over a three-year period. The two most important are Tanda and Tortiya. During 1998, PARC spent approximately $1.1 million on the Ivory Coast projects as compared to $0.9 million in 1997.
Tanda
Tanda, a 832 km2 exploration permit located in central eastern Ivory Coast, was granted to the Company in March 1996. A renewal application was filed in December 1998. Tanda was joint ventured to North Exploration (Overseas) Pty Limited ("North") in July 1998. Under the terms of the agreement, North may earn a 60% participating interest in the Tanda property by spending a minimum of $400,000 on exploration during the first 12 months of the joint venture and it must spend at least $3,000,000 over a total of 36 months to earn a 60% interest in the project. North also has the option of earning an additional 10% interest, for a total of 70%, by fully funding feasibility work and providing or arranging, on a best efforts basis, project financing for any eventual development. North is acting as manager and operator of the joint venture.
North initiated exploration programs in the fourth quarter of 1998 consisting of detailed geologic mapping (98 kilometers) of anomalous areas previously identified by the Company, particularly the Assoufou anomaly. Additional soil and rock sampling (449 and 417 samples, respectively) defined two other anomalous trends, Pala to the southwest of Assoufou and Babango to the northwest of Assoufou. This work was completed in anticipation of defining targets for RAB drilling in the second quarter of 1999. North has planned 9,000 meters of RAB drilling to test the main Assoufou anomaly at depth, targeting southerly and northerly dipping quartz vein sets identified in
previous trenching and road cuts. The results of this program will be used in planning additional exploration by North.
Tortiya
On February 25, 1998, PARC was granted an exploration permit for diamonds covering 790 km2 over an area in Ivory Coast known as Tortiya. Pursuant to an agreement dated February 19, 1998, PARC and the Company have 25% and 75% beneficial interests, respectively, in the property. Commercial diamond mining was conducted at Tortiya between 1947 and 1974 by the French company SAREMCI, which extracted over 4 million carats of gem and near-gem quality diamonds consisting of lateritic gravels overlying Early Proterozoic Birrimian metasedimentary rocks. Associated alluvial deposits were also exploited. In 1975, SAREMCI ceased mining operations due to declining grades. The deposit is currently being exploited by small-scale miners.
During 1998, exploration work included detailed geologic mapping of the area, pitting and stream sediment sampling. Both pitting and stream sediment samples were manually processed for heavy minerals on site followed by further processing in the Company's Georgetown, Guyana laboratory. The resulting heavy mineral samples were examined by mineralogists with heavy minerals of interest submitted to laboratories in Australia and Canada for SEM analysis and microprobing to determine chemical compositions. Eight microdiamonds (>0.25mm) were recovered from a 2,000 kilogram collected at depth through pitting while stream sediment sampling identified an anomalous area for G-10 garnets, an important diamond indicator mineral. These results are indicative of a possible primary diamond source in the area. A total of $0.3 million was spent on direct project exploration expenditures in 1998. PARC has budgeted approximately $0.08 million for work on the Tortiya property in the first half of 1999.
Work programs are being considered for 1999 which include additional pitting and stream sediment sampling in the areas of interest as well as geophysical surveys. The Company believes further work is warranted at Tortiya and is evaluating cost effective means of continuing exploration, including seeking a joint venture partner for the project.
Kenya
Kenya is a former British colony which gained independence in 1963. The country has a population of approximately 28 million and covers an area of approximately 583,000 km2 in East Africa The official language is English. The government of Kenya is a democratic republic. Kenya had a vigorous gold mining industry during the early 1900's up to World War II. During the period of political turmoil in the 1950's and early 1960's leading up to independence, the Kenyan gold mining industry declined significantly. The current economy is dominated by tourism, coffee and other agricultural exports.
The Ndori property covers 1,300 km2 in western Kenya on the shores of Lake Victoria, due northwest of the city of Kisumu. Access to the property is good with a major road through the center of the property and several other traversing roads.
Pursuant to an agreement dated December 12, 1996, with San Martin Mining Research and Investment Company ("San Martin") and San Martin 96 S.A., PARC was granted the immediate and exclusive right to conduct prospecting, exploration, development or related activities on properties covering an area of approximately 1,300 km2 known as Ndori in the Kisumu region of Kenya. The Ndori license, which permits prospecting and exploration for gold and other precious metals, was renewed as of January 1, 1998 for a 10 year term. PARC was also granted an exclusive option to apply for and acquire a 75% or greater interest in any mining lease issued pursuant to the Ndori license and any successor rights. In order to maintain its working right and option, PARC must incur expenditures of at least $0.6 million during each of the first and second twelve month periods of the agreement. PARC also committed to incur minimum expenditures during the third, fourth and fifth years of the agreement sufficient to maintain the Ndori License in good standing.
The geology of the Ndori property is an extension of the Lake Victoria Gold Field to the south in Tanzania, with the property lying within a well differentiated suite of Archean volcanics. Available geologic data from previous
exploration programs by the United Nations Development Program and previous owners suggest the potential for quartz reef hosted, shear zone hosted and intrusive related gold mineralization. Approximately 40 old mines have been exploited on the property, 20 of which included milling facilities.
As a result of the Company's budgetary prioritization process, the Ndori property has been placed on care and maintenance at a cost of approximately $4,000 per month. As a result, $0.2 million was spent in 1998 compared to $0.8 million in 1997. PARC is actively seeking a joint venture partner for the project.
ITEM 3.