ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES - ------- -------------------------
The following contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. Actual results, performance or achievements of the Company could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those set forth under "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
GENERAL
As of March 13, 1998, the Company owned, or had entered into agreements to acquire, direct and indirect, interests in mineral properties located in the following countries: Guyana, France (French Guiana), Suriname, Bolivia and Brazil in South America; Kenya, Ivory Coast and Mali in Africa. The location of the Company's current active projects are illustrated in Figures 1 and 2 above.
All of the properties in which the Company had an interest as at March 13, 1998, are situated in geologic domain known as greenstone belts, which are ancient volcanic-sedimentary rock assemblages. Greenstone belts are known to be favorable geologic environments for gold mineralization and account for a significant proportion of the world's gold production, e.g., the greenstone ---- belts of the Canadian Shield in Eastern Canada, the Pilbara and Yilgarn Blocks of Western Australia, the greenstone belts of East and West Africa and the Guiana and Brazilian Shields of South America. In addition, as a result of the Company's regional exploration activity for gold in the Guiana Shield, a regional exploration program was also established to search for possible primary diamond sources. So far, this diamond exploration program has led to the identification of diamond targets in French Guiana and Guyana. Regional geophysical surveys conducted in Suriname and Ivory Coast have also led to the identification of diamond targets in these countries.
Gold exploration and mining have, in the past, been conducted within most of the areas where the Company's properties are located. However, with a few exceptions, the areas have comparatively few large scale mining operations, due mostly to a difficult physical environment, poor infrastructure, and until recently, adverse political and business conditions. Although there are, or have been, numerous artisanal mining operations scattered throughout the areas where the Company's properties are located, with very few exceptions, these areas have generally not yet been fully explored using modern techniques and equipment.
All of the Company's mineral properties are located in developing countries, with the exception of Brazil and France. There are certain business and political risks inherent in doing business in developing countries. In particular, the regulatory framework for conducting mining and exploration activities in these countries, including the tax and general fiscal regimes and the manner in which rights and title to mineral properties are established and maintained, are often uncertain, incomplete, in a state of flux or subject to change without notice. Further, in many countries in which the Company's projects are located, it may not be economically feasible to develop a commercial mine unless special tax or other fiscal and regulatory concessions are obtained from the applicable government and regulatory authorities. Such concessions are typically sought in a mineral agreement (also known as foreign investment agreements and establishment agreements). A mineral agreement thus serves to establish the legal and financial framework under which mining will take place in countries where such framework might be otherwise unclear, uncertain or not commercially viable. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to execute or enforce satisfactory mineral agreements or obtain satisfactory political risk insurance on commercially reasonable terms for any or all of its properties. Consequently, the Company may have to abandon or relinquish otherwise valuable mineral rights if it determines that it will not be able to profitably exploit any discovery under existing laws and regulations. (See "Item 1. Risk Factors - "Risks of Foreign Operations" and "Requirements for Permits and Licenses".)
Total consolidated expenditures and property abandonment for the various exploration projects for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997 were as follows:
In Thousands of Dollars
IN THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS
(1) A division of the Company. (2) Approximately 69% owned by the Company as of March 13, 1998. (3) Approximately 64% owned by the Company as of March 13, 1998.
The following is a description of the principal mineral property interests held by the Company as of March 13, 1998. As a result of continuing weak gold prices, most earlier stage projects have been put on care and maintenance. Management may decide to modify expenditures budgeted for 1998 (as described below) later during the year if market and investment considerations warrant.
GUYANA PROPERTIES - -----------------
The Co-operative Republic of Guyana ("Guyana"), a former British colony, obtained independence in 1966. It has a surface area of 216,000 km2 with a population of approximately 800,000. The official language is English and the climate is tropical. Guyana is governed as a democratic republic, and the legal and land title systems are based on the English common law.
OMAI MINE
The Omai mine is owned by OMGL, an equity joint venture of the Government of Guyana, the Company and Cambior Inc. ("Cambior"). The Company owns a 30% common share equity interest in OGML. Cambior and the Government of Guyana own 65% and 5% of OGML, respectively. Cambior is the manager of all mining and related operations. The mine is located on a 52 km2 mining license on the Essequibo River, approximately 160 km southwest of Georgetown, Guyana. Access to the mine is by improved road and ferry or by fixed-wing aircraft to an all-weather airstrip.
The Company and Cambior entered into an agreement with the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission ("GGMC") and the Government of Guyana on August 16, 1991 (the "OMAI Mineral Agreement"), whereby,
among other things, OGML was granted the right to obtain a mining license (which was granted on December 12, 1991), and to carry out mining operations in accordance with the terms of the Omai Mineral Agreement. In addition, the Omai Mineral Agreement provides for the payment to the Government of Guyana of a 5% in-kind royalty from the Omai Mine. It also provides that capital and profits may be repatriated without restrictions.
Pursuant to OMGL's articles of incorporation, the Government of Guyana was granted the option to acquire from the combined holdings of the Company and Cambior in the common shares of OGML (i) after the expiration of eight years from commencement of commercial production from the Omai Mine (which was achieved in January 1993), but before the expiration of the tenth year, 5% of the common shares of OGML issued and outstanding at such time; and (ii) after the expiration of ten years from commencement of commercial production, but before the expiration of the twelfth year, an additional 22% of the common shares of OGML issued and outstanding at such time, at a price to be determined on the basis of the then current capital market values of the common shares of OGML. The Company and Cambior have each undertaken to sell and deliver to the Government of Guyana one-half of the total number of common shares of OGML required to be sold to the Government of Guyana upon exercise of the options mentioned above. If the Government of Guyana were to exercise both of its options as set forth above, the Company's common share equity interest in OGML would be reduced to 16.5%.
Pursuant to OMGL's articles of incorporation, the Company received approximately $11.0 million of Class "I" redeemable preferred shares of OGML in recognition of past exploration costs incurred by the Company. These preferred shares must be redeemed prior to any distribution to the common shareholders of OGML out of 10% of net cash flow from operations of OGML (as defined in the Omai Mineral Agreement). The reimbursements are calculated and paid quarterly to the Company. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 1995, 1996 and 1997, the Company received $1,209,467, $1,144,876 and $2,540,744 respectively, as a result of the redemption of Class I preferred shares. As at December 31, 1997, the Company had a total of $2,125,858 million in Class I preferred shares outstanding. The Company does not expect to receive dividends from its common share holdings in OGML until debt owed by OGML and guaranteed by Cambior is repaid and Class II and III preferred shares held by Cambior are redeemed. As of December 31, 1997, OGML had $131.8 million in debt and a total of $53.2 million worth of Class II and III preferred shares outstanding.
On August 19, 1995, a failure occurred in the main section of the tailings dam at the Omai Mine. The failure resulted in the discharge of cyanide-contaminated water into the Omai River, which in turn flowed into the Essequibo River. Production at the Omai Mine was suspended from August 19, 1995, and resumed on February 4, 1996, after the Government of Guyana and OGML executed an agreement authorizing, under certain conditions, OGML to recommence commercial production at the Omai Mine. Under the terms of this agreement, OGML agreed to: provide an independent geotechnical review of the new tailings pond constructed at the Omai Mine; install additional equipment to ensure compliance with the original discharge criteria set forth in the Project Environmental Impact Statement dated January 1991; study alternative technologies for cyanide reduction; plan and implement a public education program regarding cyanide; comply with new environmental legislation to be enacted by the Government of Guyana; conduct additional environmental monitoring of tailings, surface and ground waters; provide technical and financial assistance to the Government of Guyana, (including the allocation of $0.1 million for laboratory equipment for environmental monitoring purposes); cooperate in the creation of a National Disaster Response Agency or similar body; prepare a closure plan in connection with the ultimate cessation of operations at the Omai Mine and for the reclamation of the original tailings pond together with appropriate measures to ensure the adequate funding of such closure plans; and create a Consultative Committee on environmental matters.
As a consequence of the tailings dam failure, OGML received approximately 500 claims in Guyana. Such claims are currently being settled, without admission of liability, or being contested in good faith, as applicable. Amounts claimed to date against OGML do not exceed $1.5 million in the aggregate and insurance coverage may be available to OGML in relation to a substantial portion of these claims. OGML and its shareholders, including the Company, may become involved as defendants, plaintiffs or otherwise in a variety of additional legal proceedings in Guyana or elsewhere in relation to this incident. There can be no assurance that such additional litigation will not result in material additional costs arising from out-of-court settlements, damage awards or other sanctions against OGML or the Company. Moreover, there can be no assurance that all or any of such additional costs will be covered by appropriate insurance.
In December 1997, an arbitration award with respect to the wages of hourly employees at the Omai Mine fixed wage increases of 12% for 1997 and 7% for 1998. Management believes that the new wage structure will not have a significant impact on Omai's cost structure. Wages for hourly employees currently account for approximately 8% of cash operating costs.
Geology and Reserves
The Omai Mine was brought into commercial production in January 1993 and currently is the only gold producing property in which the Company has an interest. Gold production for 1993, 1994, 1995 and 1996 totaled 206,537 oz, 250,642 oz, 175,080 oz and 254,950 oz of gold, respectively. Gold production in 1996 was lower than the budgeted amount of 276,030 oz due primarily to the August 19, 1995 tailings dam failure and resulting reduced levels of production in early 1996. However, production consistently improved during every quarter in 1996.
Gold production in 1997 totaled approximately 338,000 ounces of gold, an approximately 33% increase over 1996. Increased production was the result of a full year of higher throughput in the expanded mill commissioned in the second quarter of 1996, and has since averaged a throughput of approximately 20,000 tonnes per day. The average cash cost of gold produced in 1997 was $245 per ounce compared to $252 per ounce in 1996. During 1997, the average head grade was approximately 1.5 g Au/t with a recovery rate of 93% compared to 1.7 g Au/t and a 91% recovery rate in 1996. In 1998, gold production is scheduled to reach 345,000 ounces of gold at a target cash cost per ounce of $240 due to a slightly higher head grade and lower consumable costs. The average head grade is anticipated to be approximately 1.6 g Au/t with a projected recovery rate of 93%.
In reaction to continuing weak gold prices, Omai restated its proven and probable reserves for year-end 1997, using a gold price of $350 per ounce compared to $425 in past years. On the basis of a $350 per ounce gold price, Omai's proven and probable reserves as at December 31, 1997 stood at 54.1 million tonnes at an average grade of 1.44 g Au/t, representing approximately 2.52 million ounces of gold in situ. This is compared to proven and probable reserves at December 31, 1996 of 66.6 million tonnes grading 1.5 g Au/t, representing approximately 3.2 million ounces of gold in situ. At year-end 1997, Omai had hard rock reserves of approximately 45 million tonnes grading 1.54 g Au/t for 2.2 million ounces of gold and soft rock reserves of approximately 9.0 million tonnes grading 0.97 g Au/t for 0.3 million ounces of gold. Despite the restatement of reserves at a $350 gold price, Omai does not intend to make any changes to the mine plan for 1998 and anticipates maintaining a mill feed consisting of 65% hard rock/35% soft rock. Hard rock reserves currently make up approximately 85% of the total reserves at Omai.
Quarterly production statistics for the Omai Mine (1) for 1997 was as follows:
(1) The Company has a 30% equity interest in OGML which owns the Omai Mine. (2) Cash cost of production includes mining and milling costs, power generation and general services charges.
Ore reserves at the Omai Mine are derived from four sources: the Fennell pit, the Wenot Lake pit, the alluvial deposits and stockpiles. The following table summarizes the ore reserves for these sources as at year end 1996 and 1997:
(1) Reserves are calculated using a gold price of $350 per ounce with a cutoff grade of 0.35 g Au/t for soft rock reserves and 0.70 g Au/t for hard rock reserves and recovery rate of 94%.
GOLD EXPLORATION PROJECTS
Total expenditures on gold exploration projects in Guyana during 1997 amounted to $3.6 million, $0.1 million of which were reimbursed by the Company's joint venture partners. In 1996, total expenditures were $4.3, $0.1 million of which were reimbursed by joint venture partners. Total budgeted 1998 exploration, acquisition and reconnaissance expenditures for the first half of 1998 in Guyana are $1.0 million.
MAKAPA
The Makapa project, located in northwestern Guyana, was identified on the basis of work completed during the Company's 1994 and 1995 reconnaissance program. Access to the property is by canoe or helicopter. The Makapa prospecting license was granted to the Company in June 1996. The term of the license is three years, renewable twice for a period of up to one year each. The Company owns a 100% interest in the Makapa prospecting license.
During 1997, follow up exploration at the Makapa target included soil sampling (deep augering totaling approximately 1,620 metres), and trenching (totaling approximately 840 metres). This work identified two anomalous zones of 800 to 1,200 metres in strike and 100 to 200 metres wide. Trenching and augering further confirmed the existence of a 1.75 metre wide mineralized quartz vein over a strike length of approximately 200 metres. Trenching results in the area of the quartz vein included 32 metres exhibiting a weighted average grade of 1.4 g Au/t and 46.5 metres exhibiting a weighted average grade of 2.6 g Au/t. Twenty additional rock samples from three different areas in the vicinity of the vein exhibited grades ranging from approximately 4 to 96 g Au/t.
Given the potentially high grade nature of the Makapa project and relatively low mobilization costs, an initial core drilling program has been planned for the first quarter of 1998. The program is intended to involve 12 to 15 core holes designed to test the geometry and depth potential of the quartz vein hosted mineralization as well as to test for possible strike extension and/or the occurrence of other similar structures underlying the Makapa anomalies.
EAGLE MOUNTAIN
The Eagle Mountain gold project is located in central Guyana. On October 30, 1997, the Eagle Mountain prospecting license was extended for a three year term expiring in October 2000. The Company owns a 100% interest in the Eagle Mountain prospecting license.
During 1997, the Company completed 27 holes totaling approximately 2,400 metres over several geochemical anomalies (>0.5 g Au/t). The largest of these anomalies, known as the Kilroy zone, is approximately 750 x 200 metres in size and was the principal target of the initial core drilling campaign. Three other areas, the Millionaire
zone, No. 1 Hill zone and Minnehaha shear zone, were also tested with limited core drilling. All but one of the 14 core holes drilled in the Kilroy zone intercepted significant mineralization, exhibiting an average mineralized interval of approximately 16 metres with a weighted average grade of approximately 1.8 g Au/t. Preliminary geologic modeling on the basis of deep augering (74 holes totaling 810 metres), trenching (800 metres in 15 trenches) and core drilling conducted by the Company indicated the presence of a mineralized inventory within the Kilroy zone of approximately 4.0 million tonnes grading 1.4 g Au/t. The mineralized inventory includes 2.0 million tonnes of saprolite material grading 1.2 g Au/t and 2.0 million tonnes of transition and hard rock material grading 1.6 g Au/t.
Work during the first six months is expected to include further geologic evaluation modeling, mapping and surveying. Efforts to secure a joint venture arrangement to finance exploration are in progress. A follow-up core drilling campaign may be considered during the second half of 1998.
DIAMOND EXPLORATION PROJECTS
In 1997, the aeromagnetic data obtained by the Company from the airborne geophysical survey conducted in 1994 over the Company's Five Stars Reconnaissance Area in Northwest Guyana was completely re-interpreted by specialists from a recognized consulting geophysical firm who selected over one hundred targets from the surveys. Very high resolution helicopter-borne magnetic surveying was subsequently conducted over several prospecting licenses obtained by the Company pursuant to the original reconnaissance permit and a total of 5,825 line kilometers was flown.
Twelve targets over the Piai Head prospecting license area were selected for later follow-up, the work comprising line cutting, ground magnetometry, and geological mapping. Eight of the anomalies were core drilled with 13 holes totaling 1,520 m. The remaining targets were tested by deep auger drilling and/or pitting and trenching. The Piai Head prospecting license was granted to the Company in January of 1996. Although the Company had originally applied for a prospecting license for gold and diamonds, the government of Guyana granted to the Company a prospecting license for gold only. The Company immediately asked the government of Guyana to correct the situation and grant also to the Company the right to explore for diamonds within the Piai Head prospecting license. The government of Guyana has published a notice of intention to grant to the Company a prospecting license for golds, other precious stones and minerals over this area. There can be no assurance, however, that the amended prospecting license will be granted to the Company.
Seven anomalies were also tested on the Noseno prospecting license area with line cutting, ground magnetometry, geological mapping and selected pitting and deep auger drilling. Complete results for the core and auger drilling, pitting and trenching are expected to be available during the second quarter of 1998. The Noseno prospecting license granted to the Company in June 1996 entitles the Company to explore for gold and precious stones. Follow-up work for the Guyana diamond program in 1998 will be based on the results.
SURINAME PROPERTIES - -------------------
GENERAL
Suriname, a former Dutch colony, became independent in 1975. It has a surface area of 163,000 km2, a tropical climate, and a population of approximately 470,000. The official language is Dutch with English spoken as a second commercial and technical language. Suriname has a democratically elected government.
During 1997, the Company incurred total exploration expenditures in Suriname of $11.8 million, $4.7 million of which were reimbursed by the Company's joint venture partners. Total exploration expenditures during 1996 amounted to $12.0 million, $6.4 million of which were reimbursed by the Company's joint venture partners. Total budgeted exploration and acquisition expenditures for the first 6 months of 1998 in Suriname are $1.0 million, including $0.4 million in joint venture recoveries.
GROSS ROSEBEL
Pursuant to a mineral agreement, dated May 8, 1992, as amended and restated on April 7, 1994 (the "Gross Rosebel Agreement"), between the Company, the Government of Suriname and the state mining company, Grasshopper Aluminum Company N.V. ("Grassalco"), Grassalco assigned to the Company its interest in the Gross Rosebel right of exploration, a 170 km2 area in north-central Suriname. The Gross Rosebel Agreement was ratified by the National Assembly of Suriname on March 1, 1994.
As partial consideration for the transfer of the Gross Rosebel right of exploration, the Company issued 60,000 common shares to Grassalco on June 28, 1994. Under the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement, the Company committed to expend an aggregate of $8.0 million on exploration activities over a five-year period commencing on May 8, 1992. Through May 8, 1997, the Company had spent approximately $25.8 million on the Gross Rosebel property and, as a result, fulfilled its expenditure requirement. Of the amounts expended by the Company, Cambior has contributed $14.1 million by way of joint venture recoveries (see discussion of Cambior Joint Venture below). In addition, in consideration for Grassalco making the Gross Rosebel property available for exploration, the Company paid pursuant to the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement $1.0 million to Grassalco. A feasibility study and an environmental impact statement were submitted to the Government of Suriname in May 1997.
Upon approval by the Suriname Government of the feasibility study and the environmental impact statement, the Gross Rosebel right of exploration may be converted into a right of exploitation for an initial term of 25 years. The right of exploitation will be granted to an operating company (the "Operating Company"). Within 30 days of the grant of the right of exploitation, the Company will be obligated to pay to Grassalco the sum of $2.5 million as compensation for previous exploration expenditures incurred by Grassalco.
Upon the grant of a right of exploitation to the Operating Company, Grassalco will have the option, for a period of 60 days, to purchase an undiluted 20% common share equity interest in the Operating Company by paying 20% of all exploration costs previously incurred by the Company and 20% of all subsequent costs of the Operating Company. Grassalco has a further option to purchase a second undiluted 20% interest in the shares of the Operating Company eight years following the date of commencement of commercial production (as defined in the Gross Rosebel Agreement) in consideration for the payment of a sum equal to 90% of the market value of such shares, as determined in accordance with the terms of the Gross Rosebel Agreement.
The Gross Rosebel Agreement provides that (i) a royalty of two percent of the gold produced from the Gross Rosebel property is payable in kind to Grassalco and (ii) an additional one-quarter of one percent royalty is payable for the life of the project to a charitable fund to promote national resources development in Suriname. In addition, a royalty of two percent of the proceeds received on any other minerals produced (less transportation and processing costs) is also payable to Grassalco. An advance royalty payment against the above-mentioned royalties of $6.5 million must be made to Grassalco within 90 days of receipt of the first proceeds from the sale of minerals at Gross Rosebel and a further $6.5 million must be made 12 months later. Further, in the event the price of gold exceeds $500 per ounce Grassalco is entitled to an additional 6.5% royalty on that portion of the sales price which exceeds $500 per ounce.
The Cambior Joint Venture
The Company entered into an agreement on June 7, 1994, pursuant to which Cambior was granted the option to earn an undivided 50% interest in the Company's rights in the Gross Rosebel Agreement and Gross Rosebel property. On January 8, 1996, Cambior announced its decision to exercise its option to acquire 50% of the Company's rights in the Gross Rosebel property after expending $6.0 million in exploration and development activities on the property, as required by the June 1994 option agreement. As also required, Cambior has advanced a further $2.5 million in expenditures to be repaid out of initial project earnings. Since April 1996, when Cambior earned a 50% interest in Gross Rosebel, the Company and Cambior have been contributing equally to programs and budgets with respect to the Gross Rosebel property.
Under the June 1994 option agreement, Cambior must use its best efforts to secure financing for at least 65% of eventual mine development costs from third parties. Cambior has assumed managerial responsibility for the
preparation of the feasibility study. Cambior has the right to be appointed manager of all subsequent mining and related operations of the project. There is, however, no management fee attached to this right.
The Property
The Gross Rosebel right of exploration covers 170 km2 (17,000 ha.) and is located 80 km south of the capital city of Paramaribo. Access is via a paved highway followed by an all-weather laterite surface road. Gold was reportedly first discovered in the area in 1879 and since then more than half of Suriname's recorded production has been produced from the district by dredging and small artisanal surface and underground workings. Commencing in 1974, Surplacer N.V., a subsidiary of Placer Development, a Canadian mining company (now Placer Dome), conducted an extensive exploration program of trenching, hand augering and rotary drilling over a period of three years. Subsequent field work was conducted by Grassalco over a period of seven years and a feasibility study was prepared and completed in 1984 by a Canadian engineering firm controlled by Grassalco.
The Gross Rosebel right of exploration is underlain by Proterozoic Armina, Paramaca, and Rosebel metasedimentary and metavolcanic greenstone formations. These units are intruded by a large tonalitic stock near the southern boundary of the property, which has resulted in doming of the adjacent Armina rocks and the development of steep reverse faults. The greenstone units are folded into a broad east-west trending and westerly plunging synclinal structure. Gold mineralization associated with at least five generations of hydrothermal quartz veins occur over large areas both in the south and north limbs of the syncline where these are cut by strong west-northwest trending shear zones. Locally, mineralization is controlled by zones of dilation along the shear planes and by drag folding. Intense tropical weathering has developed a residual surface laterite and saprolite profile of up to 50 m thick, overlying bedrock. Gold mineralization has been established by the Company within at least ten separate target areas including Royal Hill, Mayo, Rosebel, Koolhoven, Pay Caro, East Pay Caro, "J" Zone, Bigi Asanjangmoni, Mama Kreek and Spin Zone. All of these target areas are capped by mineralized laterite blankets typically between 3 to 10 m in thickness overlying less continuous shear and/or fold related mineralization in saprolite and bedrock. Both types of deposits are being defined for potential mining.
Geology and Reserves
In May 1997, a feasibility study was submitted to the Government of Suriname. In October 1997, the Company and Cambior reported a 32% increase in proven and probable open pittable gold reserves for the Gross Rosebel project from the previous estimate of approximately 1.8 million ounces announced in May 1997. Total proven and probable reserves of approximately 49 million tonnes grading 1.6 g Au/t were reported using a $400 per ounce gold price. This represents approximately 2.4 million mineable ounces of gold in situ, of which Golden Star presently has a 50% interest under the terms of the joint venture agreement with Cambior. Approximately 85% of the total mining reserves are hosted in soft rock (saprolite and laterite) and transition material with the remainder being hosted in hard rock. The mining reserves were completed using the inverse distance squared technique, five metre benches and a 40 degree average pit slope, soft rock and hard rock mining and processing costs based on conventional milling and cyanide leaching utilizing upon experience developed at the Omai Mine in Guyana, a 93% gold recovery and a $400 per ounce gold price.
Due to continuing weak gold prices, Gross Rosebel's open pittable proven and probable reserves have been restated based on a gold price of $350 per ounce to stand at approximately 35.5 million tonnes at an average grade of approximately 1.8 g Au/t. This represents approximately 2.0 million mineable ounces of gold in situ i.e., a reduction of approximately 20% compared to the reserves reported in October 1997 using a $400 gold price.
During the second half of 1997, optimization of the feasibility study reduced estimated cash costs to $228 per ounce compared to $237 per ounce in the May 1997 feasibility study, and increased throughput of 16,000 tonnes per day compared to 14,000 tonnes per day in the May feasibility study. A revised feasibility study was submitted to the government in November 1997. Capital costs for mine construction are estimated at approximately $175 million. Annual production for the proposed mine and mill complex is targeted at approximately 200,000 to 275,000 ounces of gold over a nine year mine life.
Mine Development
Development of the Gross Rosebel project has been deferred pending receipt of necessary governmental approvals, resolution of several development issues and improved gold prices. Some of the development issues that must be resolved prior to construction, include the structure of the operating company, the ability to secure foreign investment insurance, availability of financing from banks and other financial institutions, and relocation of Nieuw Koffiekamp, a small village located within the concession. The Company and Cambior continue to discuss with the Government of Suriname all of these development issues. Although the Company believes that these issues can be resolved, there can be no assurance that will be the case. The project is presently on care and maintenance with additional metallurgical test work planned to evaluate the potential of other processing alternatives such as heap leaching. The Company expects to incur costs of $0.16 million at Gross Rosebel in the first half of 1998.
ANTINO
The Antino property covers an area of approximately 240 km2 and is located in the Sipaliwini District in southeastern Suriname along the Lawa River, on the western border of French Guiana, in the locality of Benzdorp. Benzdorp, a former gold trade center, is 240 km southeast of Paramaribo and 220 km south and upstream from Albina on the lower Marowijne River (also called Maroni River in French Guiana).
Gold bearing alluvials in the area of the Antino property were discovered in 1885. From 1895 to 1928 the Compagnie d'Or de la Guyane Hollandaise recorded production of 9,854 kg of gold from the property. During the period from 1928 to 1963, a further 2,657 kg of gold were reportedly produced. Some dredging was carried out from 1963 to 1969, after which activity was limited to local artisanal miners.
Access to the area is by air or boat. Small fixed wing aircraft may land at a maintained grass strip on an island in the Lawa River in front of the Benzdorp landing or on a recently constructed 600 metre dirt strip on the property. The entire eastern boundary of the Antino property is accessible from the Lawa River. Access into the current exploration site is by 30 km of wilderness road passable by four wheel drive vehicles. The main camp at Fatoe Switie is 17 km from the Benzdorp landing. The camp is fully equipped for up to 37 persons.
Pursuant to a letter dated January 22, 1993 the Company entered into a service contract with a local company regarding the right of reconnaissance known in Suriname as "South Benzdorp". The essential terms of the letter agreement were restated in an option agreement in 1994, by which the Company was granted the option to acquire, subject to governmental approval, a 100% interest in any right of exploration to be issued pursuant to the South Benzdorp right of reconnaissance. Assuming exercise of the South Benzdorp option, the Company must complete a feasibility study six months prior to the expiration of such rights or any extension thereof or reassign the right of exploration to the local company. In the event the Company or a related party enters into a mineral agreement with the Government of Suriname with respect to any portion of the right of exploration, the Company will be obligated to pay the local company the sum of $50,000. The Company has also agreed to grant the local company a 10% net profits interest with respect to any portion of the right of exploration which may be brought into commercial production, subject to the Company's right to repurchase half of such entitlement, within 60 days of obtaining a Right of exploitation, for the sum of $3.0 million.
Antino represents the northernmost portion of the former 194,000 hectares South Benzdorp right of reconnaissance. It is where the Antino Right of exploration was granted to the same local company in 1996 for a period of three years which may be extended until 2005. The option is valid until the expiration of such right of exploration and any extension thereof. The Company has met its minimum expenditure requirement of $250,000 and as a result, the Company may, subject to governmental approval, at any time prior to its expiration, exercise its option to acquire a 100% interest in the Antino right of exploration. The Company has spent approximately $2.1 million in the Antino project area since its initial involvement in 1993.
Following the late 1996 discovery of relatively high grade shear zone hosted gold mineralization in the Antino property in a first phase of drilling involving 43 core holes totaling 3537 metres, a second phase of follow up core drilling involving 23 holes totaling on extension of the system 2780 metres was conducted to test for the continuity along strike of the mineralized shear. The program confirmed strike extension of the mineralized shear zone over
600 metres. Work was suspended and the Antino property placed on care and maintenance in the second quarter of 1997 as part of the Company's budgeting and prioritization process given the relatively high expected exploration cost to define reserves in narrow, high grade underground targets such as Antino. Management believes that further drilling is warranted and is assessing cost- effective options to continue Antino's exploration program, including seeking a joint venture partner on the property.
BHP RECONNAISSANCE JOINT VENTURE IN SURINAME
On August 19, 1996, the Company entered into a heads of agreement with BHP Mineral International Exploration Inc. ("BHP") covering several projects in Suriname. The projects include areas covered by applications for rights of reconnaissance filed or to be filed with the Government of Suriname by the Company and BHP. The project areas may be modified by the parties from time to time. The August 1996 heads of agreement provides that BHP will have a 60% participating interest and the Company a 40% participating interest in any joint venture to be formed with respect to a specific area. BHP and the Company participate jointly in the exploration costs of each different project area on the basis of their respective deemed participating interest in any future joint venture with respect to such area. BHP and the Company may withdraw from the agreement by giving 30 days' notice.
During 1997, the Company and BHP conducted reconnaissance programs over approximately 25,000 km2 of prospective terrain under their August 1996 heads of agreement. The Company acts as exploration contractor under the agreement. The reconnaissance program initially involved wide spaced BLEG stream silt sampling which identified four principal anomalies. The most significant anomaly (>100ppb) named Goliathberg is located in central Suriname. A follow-up BLEG survey was conducted to confirm the results from the initial survey and was further followed up by wide spaced soil sampling on 800 metre lines as well as deep auger sampling over the major anomalies. A MMI survey was also conducted selectively over the Goliathberg anomaly to assist in the definition of initial drill targets.
Based upon 1997 results, BHP and the Company intend to continue exploration at Goliathberg. Planning is currently underway for an initial, limited reversed circulation drilling campaign, to begin testing the Goliathberg target at depth. This program is anticipated to be completed during the first six months of 1998. The Company has budgeted approximately $0.5 million for exploration on this project for the first half of 1998 with recoveries from BHP of approximately $0.3 million.
FRENCH GUIANA PROPERTIES - ------------------------
GENERAL
French Guiana is part of the French national territory and has been an overseas "Departement" of France since 1946. The Departement, with an area of 84,000 km2 and a population of approximately 130,000, has two representatives in the French National Assembly and one representative in the French Senate. Under the French Constitution, French Guiana is governed by the same laws as metropolitan France, subject to modifications (including those affecting tax and mining laws and regulations) that may be adopted to reflect the historical, cultural, geographical and economic characteristics of French Guiana and provide for regional administration. French miming laws have recently undergone revisions insofar as they apply to metropolitan France. The French Senate and the French National Assembly passed a bill in early 1997 determining the extent to which the new French Mining Code, with some modifications, applies in the French overseas departments (including French Guiana) but the bill has not yet been published and therefor does not yet have the force of law. An appointed Prefect, representing the Government of France, holds governmental and administrative powers locally. A 19-member, locally-elected General Council votes on departmental budget and other local matters.
The granting of mining titles in French Guiana is administered, depending upon the type of mining title, by the Direction Regionale de l'Industrie, de la Recherche et de l'Environnement ("DRIRE"), the Ministry of Industry or the Conseil d'Etat. To apply for and acquire a mining title, a company must obtain a Personal Mining Authorization, or "Autorisation Personnelle Miniere" ("APM"). Under an APM, a company is granted the right to hold up to a certain number of permits. Guyanor was granted an APM on October 6, 1993, effective January 7, 1994, authorizing it to hold up to 15 mining titles for gold and related substances. This APM was amended to
include precious metals or precious stones on March 21, 1995. The APM was further amended on August 13, 1996 to allow Guyanor to hold ten additional mining titles. SOTRAPMAG and Societe Guyanaise des Mines ("SGM") (see below - "SOTRAPMAG and Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche Properties") each have APMs authorizing them to hold 11 permits and three permits, respectively.
There are two different types of mining titles under French law as it currently applies in French Guiana: permits and concessions. An exploration permit conveys for a specific area of land the exclusive right of prospection and exploration for the substances to which the permit relates. There are two types of exploration permits, the most common of which is the "B" type permit currently held by the Company. Type "B" permits are valid for two years and renewable twice for periods of two years each. The type "B" permit relates to a square area of 25 km2 each. Type "A" permits are valid for five years and can be renewed at least once for an additional five year term. The holder of an exploration permit is entitled to the issuance of an exploitation permit if such holder has demonstrated the presence of an exploitable mineral deposit within the area of the exploration permit. Exploitation permits are granted for a term of four years and are automatically renewed if production is actually taking place.
A mineral concession confers upon its holder an immovable right, which is distinct from the actual ownership of the underlying land. Such concessions, which, as a matter of policy, are no longer granted by the Government of France, have no limitation in terms of duration. Concessions may be mortgaged, leased, sold or otherwise transferred or inherited, in whole or in part and may be merged or subdivided, subject to authorization for the transaction being granted by a decree issued by the French government after consultation with specific agencies.
GUYANOR RESSOURCES S.A.
All of the Company's mineral interests in French Guiana are held through Guyanor, a societe anonyme incorporated under the laws of France on April 20, 1993. Guyanor's head and registered offices are located at Lot. Calimbe 2, Route du Tigre, B.P. 750, 97300 Cayenne, French Guiana.
Guyanor has interests (either directly or through its subsidiaries) in the St- Elie, Dieu-Merci, Yaou, Dorlin, Paul-Isnard, Eau-Blanche and Dachine properties. Guyanor's interests are held by way of exploration permits, concessions, property purchase agreements and joint venture and option agreements. All of the properties are in the exploration stage, except the Yaou and Dorlin projects which are currently undergoing pre-feasibility studies.
During 1997, Guyanor spent $11.9 million in continuing exploration and acquisition expenditures, of which $10.0 million were reimbursed by joint venture partners. In 1996, Guyanor had spent $9.3 million, $6.9 million of which was reimbursed by joint venture partners. Budgeted exploration expenditures for the first half of 1998 have not been finalized and will be determined by the outcome of discussions with ASARCO on funding alternatives for the St-Elie and Paul-Isnard projects.
ST-ELIE AND DIEU-MERCI
On October 25, 1993, Guyanor entered into an agreement to acquire the St-Elie concession for FF1.0 million (approximately $0.2 million). Guyanor also paid approximately $0.9 million to Compagnie Miniere Esperance S.A. ("CME") in consideration for the relinquishment of certain contractual rights which CME held in the St-Elie concession. The aggregate amount of $1.1 million represented the Company's original expenditure for the St-Elie concession and was satisfied by Guyanor's issuance of a $1.1 million promissory note payable to the Company. This amount was canceled in March 1995 in consideration for the issuance to the Company of Guyanor shares. Pursuant to an agreement dated October 22, 1993, CME agreed to relinquish to Guyanor certain residual alluvial exploitation rights in consideration for $0.5 million and a royalty of 5% of any fine gold extracted from the concession, up to a maximum of 3,215 ounces.
By agreement dated February 18, 1995, Guyanor transferred to ASARCO Guyane Francaise S.A.R.L. ("ASARCO") a 50% equity interest in Societe des Mines de St- Elie S.A.R.L. ("SMSE"), a company then wholly owned by Guyanor and to which the St-Elie concession was later transferred by decree of the French government dated April 24, 1996. SMSE has an APM, authorizing it to hold up to three mining titles. In order to remain the owner to its 50% equity interest, ASARCO must fund 100% of all costs required to advance the St-Elie concession to the
development stage for a mining operation, including reimbursement of certain expenses incurred by Guyanor and completion of a feasibility study within five years or any shorter period as provided in the agreement. In particular, and as part of its funding obligation, ASARCO has to spend a minimum of $10.0 million on the concession over a five-year period. If ASARCO completes the feasibility study for less than $10.0 million, ASARCO must expend the remaining balance on the St-Elie concession before Guyanor be required to contribute its proportionate share of expenses. ASARCO may decide at any time to terminate its obligations under the agreement and stop funding the project. ASARCO and Guyanor will be entitled to reimbursement of all expenses related to the St-Elie concession incurred by each of them and Guyanor will be entitled to a finder's fee of $1.8 million, on a pro rata basis, prior to any distribution of revenues based upon each party's participating interest in SMSE. The agreement provides that ASARCO's 50% interest in SMSE will return automatically to Guyanor if ASARCO's various commitments described above are not met.
On February 19, 1997, SMSE and a French company entered into an agreement pursuant to which SMSE was granted the four-year option to acquire a 100% undivided interest in three concessions and one exploration permit immediately adjacent to the St-Elie property and covering a 155 km2 (15,500 ha.) area known in French Guiana as Dieu-Merci. In order to maintain its rights under the Dieu- Merci option, SMSE must (i) make payments of FF4.0 million (approximately $0.7 million) in year one, FF1.5 million (approximately $0.2 million) in year two, FF2.5 million (approximately $0.4 million) in year three and FF2.5 million (approximately $0.4 million) in year four and (ii) incur minimum expenditures on the Dieu-Merci property of FF5.5 million (approximately $0.9 million) (including a 3,000 meter core drilling campaign) during year one and FF5.0 million (approximately $0.8 million) during each subsequent year of the option period. SMSE may exercise the option at any time by paying the difference between FF21.5 million (approximately $3.5 million) and the annual payments made as of the exercise date. In addition, upon exercise of the option, the optionor will be entitled to receive a 3% net smelter royalty from future production from the Dieu-Merci property. In the event the St-Elie property is mined first, the optionor will be entitled to a 1% net smelter royalty from the St-Elie property. The Dieu-Merci property is subject to the ASARCO joint venture regarding the St- Elie property. As at December 31, 1997, ASARCO had expended approximately $7.0 million on the St-Elie and Dieu-Merci properties.
The Property
The St-Elie concession was originally constituted by the government of France in 1889 and covers a rectangular area of 99 km2 (9,900 ha.) located in north central French Guiana, 110 km west of Cayenne, the departmental capital. The Dieu-Merci property covers an area of 155 km2 (15,500 ha.) adjacent to the eastern and southeastern portions of the St-Elie concession. The Dieu-Merci property is composed of three concessions (Dieu-Merci, La Victoire and Renaissance) and one exploitation permit (Couriege). St-Elie and Dieu-Merci are located in a virtually undeveloped region of French Guiana. Access to the concession is by helicopter, airplane, or by a recently completed 20 km private road from Tigre Creek.
Work Program
During the first half of 1997, 20 holes totaling 3,049 meters, were completed on the Kerouani and Virgile prospects at the Dieu-Merci project. At both Kerouani and Virgile 10 holes were drilled to test the depth potential of near surface gold mineralization over areas approximately 300 by 250 meters each. At Kerouani, significant mineralization was encountered in each of the 10 holes (DM97-01 to DM97-10) through the saprolite profile and into hardrock, yielding an average mineralized interval of approximately six meters with a weighted average gold grade of 2.0 g/t. At Virgile, significant mineralization was encountered in 70% of the holes drilled (DM97-11 to DM97-20), yielding an average mineralized interval of approximately five meters with a weighted average gold grade of 2.2 g/t. At Michel, a 16 hole infill core drilling campaign totaling 2,124 meters was completed to confirm and extend gold mineralization discovered in 1996. Significant gold mineralization was encountered in 11 of the 12 holes for which results are available, yielding an average mineralized interval of approximately 14 meters with a weighted average gold grade of 2.8 g/t. In addition, 22 holes were drilled on the Pactole, Jonquemont and Chemin de Fer zones for a total of 2,575 m.
During the second half of 1997, Guyanor completed 29 core holes, totaling 4,875 metres, on the Michel zone at St-Elie for both infill drilling over the known zone of mineralization and step out drilling to expand the zone. The
drilling expanded the strike length of the Michel zone over 1.5 kilometres which remains open along strike and at depth. At the Dieu-Merci property, the exploration program in the second half of 1997 involved close-spaced power augering to a depth of 10 metres and demonstrated the effectiveness of the technique in defining surficial mineralization. The areas of interest for potentially defining near surface gold mineralization encompass approximately three square kilometres, including the Kerouani, Virgile, Cesar and Devis-Sud targets on the Dieu-Merci property as well as 12 hectares at the Chemin de Fer target on the St-Elie property. 6 core holes, totaling 830 metres were completed on the Devis Sud zone.
Geological modeling of the Michel zone was completed in February 1998 for the purpose of estimating mineralized inventories resulting in an estimated mineralized inventory within Whittle pits of 1.4 million tonnes grading at 4.2g Au/t. The current estimates of mineralized inventories within Whittle pits for the Michel zone are based on results from 53 core holes, totaling 7,632 metres. Estimates of mineralized inventory within Whittle pits were calculated using the inverse distance squared technique; a 48 degree pit slope; a gold price of $350; gold recoveries of 93%; soft and hard rock mining costs of $1.10/tonne and $1.50/tonne; and soft and hard rock processing costs of $6.00/tonne and $8.50/tonne. Additional costs of $4.00/tonne of ore were applied for general and other costs reflecting the higher costs associated with operations in French Guiana compared to Guyana or Suriname.
Guyanor and ASARCO have not yet been able to agree on a work program and budget for the first six months of 1998. Guyanor was informed by ASARCO in February 1998 of its intention to defer exploration spending at the St-Elie/Dieu Merci project for the first half of 1998 due to the impact of low copper prices. ASARCO has however reiterated its long-term commitment to the project and informed the Company of its intention to resume drilling when conditions permit. The agreement between Guyanor and ASARCO contains specific provisions on what would happen in the event of a deadlock on a work program and budget. Guyanor is currently discussing with ASARCO how to resolve the current deadlock, in addition to the possible revision of the exploration programs and reduction of activity during the first half of 1998.
During 1997, Guyanor's exploration expenditures on the St-Elie and Dieu-Merci projects amounted to $3.0 million , all of which were reimbursed by ASARCO pursuant to the February 1995 agreement. During 1996, Guyanor's exploration spending on the St-Elie and Dieu-Merci projects totaled $2.4 million, all of which were reimbursed by ASARCO.
YAOU AND DORLIN
Pursuant to an agreement dated July 16, 1993, the Company acquired from BHP for $4.3 million a 63.3% participating interest in a joint venture between BHP and BRGM with respect to six type "B" exploration permits covering an area known as Yaou (the "Yaou Permits") and six type "B" exploration permits covering an area known as Dorlin (the "Dorlin Permits") in French Guiana. In August 1993, the Company transferred its 63.3% participating interest in the joint venture to Guyanor at cost. Further to an agreement dated August 3, 1993, between the Company and BRGM and a subsequent agreement, dated September 23, 1993, among the Company, Guyanor and BRGM, Guyanor acquired for $2.5 million BRGM's 36.7% interest in the joint venture assets owned for the benefit of the joint venture by BRGM. In addition, Guyanor agreed to pay to BRGM a further FF14.0 million (approximately $2.8 million) as follows: FF7.0 million at the time of completion of a feasibility study on either the Yaou or Dorlin properties and FF7.0 million at the time of commencement of commercial production on either of these properties. The transfer of the Yaou and Dorlin Permits from BRGM to Guyanor was approved by the relevant French regulatory authorities on May 25, 1994. Both BHP and BRGM are arms' length parties to Guyanor and the Company. The 12 type "B" permits were initially granted for a two-year period and they were all renewed for additional two-year periods. Two of the twelve permits expired in February 1998 and cannot be renewed. Applications for the remaining ten type "B" permits for a second and last time are currently pending. Those permits will, if renewed, expire in 1999 and won't be renewable. Guyanor also filed an application for two type "A" exploration permits that would, once issued, replace the 12 type "B" exploration permits. Under French law, in order to preserve its rights to the Yaou and Dorlin properties, Guyanor must be granted exploitation permits or type "A" exploration permits over the area. There can be no assurance that any of these applications will be granted.
Guyanor and the Company entered into an option agreement with Cambior, dated as of May 11, 1994, pursuant to which Cambior was granted the option to acquire a 50% interest in a sole purpose company which would hold the Yaou and Dorlin Permits in French Guiana. In September 1997, Cambior became entitled to exercise the option after having spent the $11.0 million expenditure commitment. Subsequent expenditures have been funded equally by Cambior and Guyanor. The sole purpose company has not been formed yet. The acquisition by Cambior of any
interest in the Yaou and Dorlin Permits is subject to French governmental approval. There can be no assurance that such approval will be granted. The agreement also provides that Guyanor is to manage the exploration of the Yaou and Dorlin Permits and Cambior is to undertake the preparation of a feasibility study on the properties and to manage the development and operation of future mining operations.
The Properties
The Yaou Permits currently cover a total area of 100 km2 (10,000 ha.) and are located some 210 km southwest of Cayenne. Access to the property is by helicopter or four wheel drive vehicle on 17 km of dirt road from the town of Maripasoula, which is accessible by chartered and daily scheduled fixed-wing aircraft from Cayenne.
The Dorlin Permits cover a total area of 150 km2 (15,000 ha.) and are located some 180 km southwest of Cayenne and 60 km east of Maripasoula. The property is accessible by helicopter. A 500 m airstrip located on the property is suitable for fixed wing aircraft. Access is also available by boat during the rainy season.
Work Program
In July 1997, a mineralized inventory within Whittle pits (calculated using a $400 gold price, 40 degree average pit slopes, soft rock and hard rock minerals and processing cost based on experience elsewhere in the Guiana Shield and a 93% recovery rate) totaling 19.7 million tonnes grading 1.8 g Au/t has been defined at the projects, including 11.2 million tonnes grading 2.2 g Au/t at Yaou and 8.5 million tonnes grading 1.3 g Au/t at Dorlin. These are estimated to be part of a larger geologic mineralized inventory at Yaou and Dorlin of approximately 35 million tonnes grading 1.6 g Au/t, including 18.2 million tonnes grading 2.0 g Au/t at Yaou and 16.8 million tonnes grading 1.2 g Au/t. The reclassification of the September 1996 estimate of probable reserves at Yaou to mineralized inventory in July 1997 reflected a more conservative policy of reporting proven or probable reserves only when accompanied by an economic scoping or prefeasibility study.
Due to continuing weak gold prices, Yaou and Dorlin's mineralized inventory within Whittle pits were restated in early 1998 using a $350 per ounce gold price. On the basis of a $350 per ounce gold price, Yaou and Dorlin's mineralized inventory within Whittle pits are approximately 16.8 million tonnes at an average grade of approximately 1.9 g au/t, including 10.3 million tonnes at Yaou at an average grade of 2.3 g Au/t and 6.5 million tonnes at Dorlin at an average grade of 1.3 g Au/t. The restated Whittle pit mineralized inventories at Yaou and Dorlin represent a reduction of approximately 10% from the estimates reported in July 1997.
At Yaou, the mineralized inventory is derived from three zones, Yaou Central, Chaina and J North. By the third quarter of 1997, Guyanor had completed considerably more core drilling at Yaou than at Dorlin. More than 180 core holes totaling approximately 30,900 metres were drilled at Yaou in comparison to only 146 holes totaling approximately 20,300 metres at Dorlin. On November 13, 1997, the Company and Guyanor reported results from core drilling on the East and West Nivre zones at Dorlin. The objective of the drilling campaign was to expand the known zones of mineralization at East Nivre along strike as well as to increase the density of drilling to allow for updated mineralized inventory estimations in support of planned prefeasibility studies. Results were available from 65 additional holes, totaling approximately 9,200 metres. All but two holes exhibited significant mineralization yielding an average mineralized interval of approximately 11 metres with a weighted average grade of 1.4 g Au/t, with near surface mineralization exhibiting a weighted average grade of 1.3 g Au/t and hard rock mineralization exhibiting a weighted average grade of 1.5 g Au/t. The results from the recent 9,200 metres of drilling at Dorlin are not reflected in the current estimate of mineralized inventories for Yaou and Dorlin, but are being incorporated into a new geologic model. Yaou was put on care and maintenance early in the third quarter of 1997 in order to direct the exploration budget defining further resources at Dorlin.
Cambior and Guyanor are currently preparing a geologic model and conducting metallurgical test work and preliminary engineering and costing for the prefeasibility studies which are scheduled to be completed during the second half of 1998. Limited field work will be conducted at Yaou and Dorlin during the first six months of 1998 while the prefeasibility studies are being completed. The results of the prefeasibility studies will help determine the need for additional exploration activity at Yaou and Dorlin during the second half of 1998.
During 1997, Guyanor's exploration expenditures on Yaou and Dorlin totaled $5.5 million, $4.7 of which was reimbursed by Cambior under the above-mentioned agreement. During 1996, Guyanor spent a total of $1.1 million on the Yaou project, of which $1.0 million was reimbursed by Cambior. Guyanor has budgeted $1.3 million in the first half of 1998, primarily for on-going geologic evaluation and reserve estimation and preparation of pre-feasibility studies.
PAUL-ISNARD AND EAU-BLANCHE
On October 29, 1994, Guyanor acquired an interest in the Paul-Isnard and Eau- Blanche properties by way of the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of SOTRAPMAG. SOTRAPMAG holds a 99.7% interest in SGM. Guyanor also directly acquired the 0.3% interest in SGM not owned by SOTRAPMAG. SOTRAPMAG holds, directly or indirectly, eight mineral concessions (the "Paul-Isnard Concessions") and four type "B" exploration permits (the "Eau-Blanche Permits"). An application for a type "A" exploration permit covering an area of approximately 326 km2 was filed by Guyanor in January 1996 but it has not been granted yet. The type "A" permit would include two of the four type "B" permits as well as a new area adjacent to the Paul-Isnard property. There can be no assurance that the type "A" exploration permit will be granted.
Joint Venture with ASARCO and LaSource
In conjunction with Guyanor's acquisition of SOTRAPMAG, BRGM relinquished its rights under an option from Alcatel Alsthom Compagnie Generale d'Electricite to acquire any primary deposit located within the Paul-Isnard Concessions. In consideration therefor, Guyanor paid to BRGM the sum of FF2.5 million (approximately $505,000) and LaSource Developpement S.A., a company affiliated to BRGM ("LaSource"), received an initial 25% participating interest in two joint ventures for the exploration and exploitation of primary gold deposits on the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects. Pursuant to joint venture and option agreements entered into on June 26, 1996 by ASARCO, LaSource and Guyanor, ASARCO has the right to acquire a 50% interest in SOTRAPMAG's remaining interest in the primary deposits on each of the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects. In order to acquire its interests in one of these projects, ASARCO must , by June 2001, complete a feasibility study and spend at least $10 million on such project, or to combine the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects into a single project with a minimum five-year expenditure of $20 million. Until completion of a feasibility study, SOTRAPMAG's share of expenditures on a project will be funded by ASARCO unless ASARCO withdraws from such project. ASARCO may terminate its right to acquire a participating interest in a project at any time by giving written notice to SOTRAPMAG of its intent to withdraw from such project at least 90 days prior to the end of the applicable program period for such project. ASARCO is also obligated to use its best efforts to obtain financing on a project finance basis for 80% of project development costs, with SOTRAPMAG and ASARCO each contributing in their respective percentage interest of the remainder of such costs. Guyanor currently acts as project manager for the exploration phase at both projects. Under the option agreement, SOTRAPMAG has the authority to appoint the manager. Upon completion of an initial feasibility study, the manager will be appointed by the participant having the largest participating interest. If SOTRAPMAG and ASARCO's participating interests are equal, ASARCO will become manager.
As at December 31, 1997, Guyanor's interest in the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects had increased to, subject to ASARCO's option, approximately 87% and 83% respectively as a result of LaSource's decision to not contribute its share of 1997 exploration expenditures. Guyanor acts as exploration manager. LaSource held as at the same date approximate 13% and 17% participating interests in the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects, respectively. As of December 31, 1997, ASARCO had expended $3.8 million on the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects while LaSource had expended $0.3 million.
The Properties
The Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche properties are located in the western part of French Guiana, some 200 km west of Cayenne. The properties are accessed from St-Laurent-du-Maroni, either by air, at a distance of 75 km to the south, or by means of a 115 km-long laterite road. The first 62 km section of this road is maintained by the government and the remaining 53 km section by SOTRAPMAG.
There are two prominent mountain chains bordering the properties which form the edges of a basin in which alluvial gold deposits have accumulated. Management believes this alluvial gold originated from gold-bearing rocks from the Decou- Decou and Lucifer mountains and was transported downward by high-energy streams, concentrating the gold in the gravel beds of streams in the Citron area of the Paul-Isnard property. The Decou-Decou mountain to the south of the property is formed of volcanic rocks that, at the summit, are covered by degraded lateritic layers. The Lucifer mountain to the north-east is formed of basic intrusive rocks. The basin between the mountains is underlain by a Proterozoic sequence of mafic to felsic volcanics and clastic sediments of the Paramaca and Bonidoro groups, cut by ultramafics to felsic intrusives.
Work Program
Guyanor began an exploration program in 1995 to identify what may have contributed to the formation of the alluvial gold deposits in the Paul-Isnard area. An outcrop sampling program, involving approximately 746 channel samples, outlined a zone of strongly sheared, mineralized felsic volcanic rocks approximately 3 km in length yielding an average gold grade of approximately 2.0 g Au/t.
A core drilling campaign in 1996 targeted approximately 1.1 km of the strike length of this zone and involved the completion of 18 holes totaling 3,232 m. Gold mineralization is believed to be associated with the presence of sulfides, primarily pyrite, pyrrhotite, arsenopyrite and chalcopyrite. Mineralization encountered within the felsic volcanic unit at depth over the strike length drilled appears, in the Company's opinion, to be consistent with a massive sulfide type of mineralization similar to deposits currently being mined along the Cadillac Break in Quebec, Canada. Of particular interest is semi-massive to massive sulfide mineralization encountered in two holes of this drill campaign. Polymetallic assays on semi-massive to massive sulfide mineralization intersected in one hole yielded weighted average metal grades of 3.7 g Au/t, 17 g/t silver, approximately 0.3% copper and trace zinc values, within a larger, 25 m interval with an average weighted grade of 2.8 g Au/t.
During the first half of 1997, a ground geophysical survey, involving induced polarization, resistivity and magnetism, was carried out over the mineralized felsic unit.
On August 20, 1997, the Company and Guyanor announced results from the second phase core drilling program at the Paul Isnard project. Ten core holes were completed on 200 to 400 metre spacing, totaling 1,995 metres, over the Montagne d'Or volcanogenic massive sulfide ("VMS") target at Paul Isnard. Nine of the ten holes intersected significant gold mineralization exhibiting a weighted average grade of 2.0 g Au/t over an average mineralized interval of 6.0 metres. The drilling extended the known zone of mineralization over a strike length of approximately 2.4 kilometres with varying widths from 200 to 400 metres. Polymetallic assays were conducted selectively on 71 samples from the second phase of core drilling. Copper values were recorded in 80% of the samples yielding a weighted average grade of 0.11% copper while silver values were recorded in 100% of the samples yielding a weighted average grade of 4.1 g/t.
On January 15, 1998, the Company and Guyanor jointly announced the results from the third phase of core drilling completed over the Montagne d'Or target at Paul Isnard during the second half of 1997. Twenty holes were completed during the third phase of drilling, totaling approximately 4,134 metres, with the aim of infill drilling over the known strike length of the Montagne d'Or VMS system and step out drilling to test for further strike extension, primarily to the east. All but two of the 20 holes encountered significant gold mineralization exhibiting a weighted average grade of approximately 4.6 g Au/t (high values cut to 30 g Au/t) over an average mineralized interval of approximately 5.7 metres. Three styles of gold mineralization have been confirmed at Montagne d'Or: (i) steeply dipping, semi-massive to massive sulfide zones and adjacent alteration, (ii) steeply dipping zones of disseminated sulfide mineralization, and (iii) coarse gold associated with steeply dipping quartz veins and adjacent alteration.
To date, the semi-massive to massive sulfide style of gold mineralization has been intersected in eight holes drilled into the Montagne d'Or VMS system. The semi-massive to massive sulfide zones in these eight holes exhibit a weighted average grade of 33.3 g Au/t (uncut) over an average length of 1.1 metres while the mineralized interval around these semi-massive to massive sulfide zones exhibit a weighted average grade of 9.0 g Au/t (uncut) over an average length of 5.5 metres. Samples from these and other holes with significant gold values have been selected for multi-metal assays and whole rock geochemistry. The results from several holes verified multiple zones of
significant gold mineralization in disseminated sulfides. In addition, coarse gold in and around quartz veins was encountered in the three core holes farthest to the east and west, a type of mineralization similar to that found at the Michel zone on the St-Elie project in French Guiana.
In February 1998, the Company and Guyanor announced the completion of geologic modeling for the Montagne d'Or zone for the purpose of estimating mineralized inventories, resulting in an estimated mineralized inventory with Whittle pits of 18.7 million tonnes grading 2.5g Au/t. The estimates for the Montagne d'Or zone are based upon 48 core holes, totaling 9,362 metres. Estimates of mineralized inventory within Whittle pits were calculated using the inverse distance squared technique; a 48 degree pit slope; a gold price of $350; gold recoveries of 90%; soft and hard rock mining costs of $1.10/tonne and $1.50/tonne; and soft and hard rock processing costs of $6.00/tonne and 8.50/tonne. Additional costs of $3.00/tonne of ore were applied for general and other costs reflecting the higher costs associated with operations in French Guiana compared to Guyana or Suriname.
SOTRAPMAG and ASARCO have not yet been able to agree on a work program and budget for the first six months of 1998. SOTRAPMAG and the Company were informed by ASARCO in February 1998 of its intention to defer exploration spending at the Paul-Isnard and Eau-Blanche projects for the first half of 1998 due to the impact of low copper prices. ASARCO has however reiterated its long-term commitment to the projects and informed the Company of its intention to resume drilling when conditions permit. The agreement between SOTRAPMAG and ASARCO contains specific provisions on what would happen in the event of a deadlock on a work program and budget. The Company is currently discussing with ASARCO how to resolve the current deadlock, in addition to the possible revision of the reduction of activity during the first half of 1998.
Total expenditures by all parties for 1997 were $1.8 million for Paul-Isnard and $0.1 million for Eau-Blanche, all of which were reimbursed by ASARCO Total expenditures in 1996 were $1.4 million for Paul-Isnard and $0.1 million for Eau- Blanche of which $1.5 million was funded by ASARCO.
Discontinuation of Mining Operations
SOTRAPMAG commenced alluvial gold production at the Paul-Isnard property in 1987. SOTRAPMAG experienced continuing operating losses since its acquisition by Guyanor in 1994 with operating losses of $1.8 million in 1995 and $2.4 million in 1996. As a result of the conclusions of an outside consultant report, Guyanor began implementation of a program to discontinue alluvial operations during the first quarter of 1997. Mining operations were suspended on April 17, 1997. Alluvial gold production continued during the period from January 1 to April 17, 1997, with operating losses of $0.5 million. Closure procedures, including land rehabilitation and company-provided outplacement services, were substantially completed by the end of 1997.
DACHINE
The property is a square, 5x5 km area accessible only by helicopter or, during the rainy season, by canoe from Maripasoula. Microdiamonds were found for the first time in 1983 in alluvium/colluvium by BRGM during strategic prospecting work for the Mineral Inventory of French Guiana. No further exploration was conducted at Dachine until Guyanor, after examining the existing literature and conducting preliminary reconnaissance in the field, was granted a type "B" exploration permit by the French government covering a 25 km2 area in southwest French Guiana known as Dachine (formerly known as Inini). An application was filed in December of 1995 for a type "A" permit covering an area of 337 km2 which would include the current type "B" permit. As of today, the type "A" permit has not been granted.
BHP and Guyanor entered into an agreement in December 1995 whereby BHP could earn a 51% interest in the Dachine project by spending $3.5 million by May 31, 1998. After review of the final results of an initial bulk sampling program, BHP withdrew from the agreement effective as of March 31, 1997.
On December 3, 1997, the Company and Guyanor reported results from a second alluvial bulk sampling program commenced after the withdrawal of BHP. The program was designed to quickly and cost effectively recover diamonds, first, to establish the clear presence of macrodiamonds, and second, to yield a large enough parcel, though not necessarily representative of the body in situ, so as to establish a preliminary distribution and quality range of macrodiamonds at Dachine.
Thirteen samples ranging in size from 3 to 17.9 bank cubic metres were collected from three creeks, one of which is located on the Dachine body while the other two are located within one kilometre to the east and west of the body. Due to logistical and budget constraints, only 27.1 cubic metres, or 32% of the total collected sample, was processed. A total of 5,142 macrodiamonds greater than 1.0 mm round aperture Antwerp sieve were recovered, ranging in size to just over 4.5mm, or 0.88 carats, and yielding a total of 73.93 carats. The size distribution of the diamonds is fairly log normal indicating there is a possibility that larger stones may exist. The value of the stones, which were examined by two experts in Canada and Europe, was estimated in the $1 to $3 per carat range. Diamond quality is a critical aspect for the Dachine project. The next phase of exploration at Dachine will consist of geological mapping and drilling to further characterize the diamond and facies variability within the body identified by the 1996 core drilling. Guyanor and the Company are evaluating the most cost effective means of conducting this next phase of work as well as funding alternatives, including seeking a joint venture partner.
During 1997, $0.7 million were spent on exploration and other holding costs. During 1996, Guyanor spent $1.2 million for exploration at the Dachine property, $1.1 million of which was reimbursed by BHP under the above-mentioned agreement. No expenditures are budgeted for Dachine in 1998.
BRAZIL PROPERTIES - -----------------
Brazil is the fifth largest country in the world with an area of 8,510,700 km2. The majority of the country is located in the tropics The Amazon River system drains over half of Brazil's area. Brazil has 26 states and the Federal District of Brasilia, the capital city. Brazil has a population of approximately 160 million. Brazil's two main cities are Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Brazil declared its independence in 1822. From 1964 to 1985, although under a military regime, Brazil experienced considerable economic growth and development. In 1985, the country returned to democracy. A new Constitution was implemented in 1988. Even though Brazil has a free enterprise system, there is still considerable state and semi-state participation in various strategic sectors, such as transportation and utilities. Special legislation has been enacted to privatize many companies, but the process is moving slowly. The government has recently been successful in reducing the rate of inflation. Brazil hosts the world's largest deposit, and is the world's largest producer, of iron ore. Major export products include soybeans, orange juice, cocoa, coffee and manufactured goods. The Company's property interests in Brazil are located in the central and eastern Amazon region. The administrative offices of the Company are located in Brasilia. The principal property of the Company in Brazil is Andorinhas. The Company's other project in Brazil, Abacaxis, was put on care and maintenance.
ANDORINHAS
On December 5, 1995, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce ("CVRD") announced that the Company was selected as the successful bidder to earn a right to associate with CVRD for the possible future development and exploitation of the Andorinhas gold property in Brazil. CVRD is one of the world's largest resource and transportation logistics companies. CVRD is a major producer of iron ore, bauxite, manganese, precious metals and other mineral products. CVRD is also one of the largest individual producer of gold in Latin America thanks to its extensive land holdings in Brazil. The Andorinhas tender represented CVRD's first effort to secure outside partners to assist in the development of CVRD's gold resource potential in Brazil.
An agreement with CVRD was executed in May 1996. Under the agreement, the Company's exclusive right (through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Southern Star Resources Ltd.) to earn a 50% participating interest in an association with CVRD to be created to exploit any gold discovered on the property is conditional upon the Company matching CVRD's previous exploration expenditures of R5.2 million (approximately $4.6 million, subject to monthly adjustments to account for Brazilian inflation), completion of a positive feasibility study, and CVRD obtaining any necessary legal or governmental approvals to form an association for development and exploitation of a mine on the property. Upon making exploration expenditures of R5.2 million, the Company and CVRD must share equally in all remaining exploration and development costs or suffer dilution. The Company has the right to terminate the agreement and let its right to form an association lapse without any further obligations at any time. In December of 1997, the Company met its R5.2 million expenditure commitment on the property.
As part of an agreement with CVRD, and in lieu of cash property payments to CVRD, the Company must also reach agreements with the surface owners and occupants of portions of the land covered by the three exploration licenses
comprising Andorinhas in connection with its exercise of the exploration activities. Agreements have been reached with several key land owners to acquire improvements and surface right over the three principal target areas on the property, Mamao, Babacu and Lagoa Seca. Approximately $1.3 million was paid out pursuant to these agreements in 1997. The Company may terminate those agreements without further liability if it decides to abandon, in whole or in part, the property. These agreements contemplate aggregate cash payments by the Company of approximately $5.8 million payable over the next four or five years, with approximately $400,000 of this amount payable in 1998. More than a dozen additional people own areas less critical and peripheral to the main target areas. There can be no assurance that satisfactory agreements will be concluded with these remaining land owners.
The Property
The Andorinhas project covers approximately 25,000 ha. and is located in the state of Para in the eastern Amazon near the town of Rio Maria, approximately 150 km south of the Carajas district. It is accessible by paved road to Rio Maria and then dirt road for 35 km. Scheduled planes service the city of Redencao about 100 km south of Rio Maria.
Andorinhas is an advanced stage exploration project. Gold mineralization was discovered at Andorinhas in the late 1970s by Rio Doce Geologia e Mineracao S.A., CVRD's exploration subsidiary. The geologic setting and mineralization of discoveries in the area appear to share the same characteristics of many of the notable underground mines in the Abitibi mineral province of Canada, with high grade gold-quartz vein mineralization occurring in multiple zones. Surface work and approximately 15,000 m of drilling by CVRD in late 1970s identified three primary zones of interest, Mamao and Babacu along a 14 km shear zone trending northeast-southwest through the southern leg of the property and Lagoa Seca on a parallel 8 km shear zone to the north. The drilling results averaged 2.7 m at 17.1 g Au/t from 11 holes at the Mamao prospect, 19.8 m at 4.7 g Au/t from 9 holes at the Lagoa Seca prospect and 2 m at 8.1 g Au/t from 6 holes at Babacu.
In the early 1980s, the Andorinhas area experienced a significant influx of garimpeiros (illegal miners) who caused most legitimate exploration activity to cease in the area during that period and mined multiple surface zones of enriched mineralization along the shear zones. Garimpeiro mining diminished significantly in the mid 1980s as gold prices fell and pits from the surface mining of gold bearing material began to encounter the water table. Several such pits still exist today at the two primary target areas on the southern 14 km regional shear, Mamao and Babacu. At the Mamao area five distinct pits remain: Melechete, Matinha, Cantina, Maria Bonita and Mandioca. One garimpeiro established an underground mine on the Melechete ore shoot from the bottom of the Melechete pit. Access roads were improved, a power line was brought to the property and a small mill and carbon treatment plant were constructed.
Work Program
On April 17, 1997, the Company announced core drilling results for the Andorinhas gold project. Core drilling completed since the last report on January 29, 1997, totaled approximately 4,060 meters in 14 holes, MAF-51 to MAF- 64. Significant mineralized intersections of the Melechete zone were encountered in 11 of the 14 holes. Six of nine step out holes, drilled to extend the down-dip limits of the Melechete/Matinha zone, intercepted significant mineralization exhibiting a weighted average grade of approximately 11.3 g Au/t over an average thickness of approximately 4.3 metres.
Core drilling at the Mamao zone to date involved 65 holes, totaling 13,289 metres on a nominal 50 by 50 metre spacing, and resulted in the identification of three parallel orebodies, Melechete, M2 and Arame. An estimate of mineralized inventory at the Mamao zone was prepared for the three orebodies in support of the scoping study and totaled 466,540 tonnes at a grade of 13.27 g Au/t (based on a cut-off grade of 4.0 g Au/t and a minimum mining width of 1.5 metres). Removal of the pillars in the existing Mamao mine has been estimated to provide an additional 40,000 tonnes at approximately the same grade to the total mineralized inventory for the Mamao zone. The orebodies at the Mamao zone represent ductile shear zones dipping at approximately 42 degrees with an average thickness of approximately 3.6 metres. All three orebodies at the Mamao zone remain open at depth. On December 23, 1997, Golden Star announced the results from a scoping study completed by engineering consultants, Kilborn International of Denver, Colorado, for the Mamao zone.
Consistent with the objective of the Company and CVRD, the study involved estimating the operating and cost parameters for developing a 1,000-tonne per day underground mining operation. Initial metallurgical studies indicated 96% to 98% gold recoveries from the Mamao zone ore and were followed by further studies which provided an optimized recovery of 94.3% utilizing a crush, grind, floatation, regrind, carbon-in-pulp (CIP) flow sheet. Mine access was planned for maximum mining flexibility utilizing a decline ramp from which development headings would be excavated at 20 metre vertical intervals down the dip of the ore bodies. Proposed mining methods include conventional open stoping with jackleg drills and slushers where the orebody is narrow, requiring more selective mining, and mechanized blasthole stoping where the orebody is thicker, requiring less selective mining. Closer spaced delineation drilling will be required before the optimal mining method(s) can be determined and, as a result, the more conservative conventional open stoping method was adopted in the study to provide an estimate of total operating costs per ounce of gold produced. On the basis of the Mamao zone orebodies, the scoping study estimated cash costs of $156 per ounce, including an 11.6 g Au/t diluted head grade, $35.6 per tonne mining costs, $11.20 per tonne milling costs and $8.00 per tonne milled general and administrative costs. The capital costs estimated for a 1,000 tonne per day operation were $88.2 million including indirect and contingency costs. While the mineralized inventory outlined to date at the Mamao zone alone would not justify the development of a 1,000 tonne per day operation, the orebodies at Mamao exhibit favorable economics. This should play an important role in any mine development strategy.
During the fourth quarter of 1997, exploration focused on the Lagoa Seca trend, a second major shear zone at Andorinhas approximately six kilometres to the northeast of the Mamao zone. Work included the compilation of past work by CVRD, detailed geologic mapping and an induced polarization (IP) geophysical survey over approximately two kilometres of the mineralized trend. Along with the results of the scoping study Golden Star also reported results from CVRD's past core drilling, which involved 40 core holes, totaling approximately 5,500 metres, on two contiguous zones known as Lagoa Seca 1 and Lagoa Seca 2, over a strike length of approximately 1.1 kilometres. Weak to strong mineralization was intercepted in 33, or 83% of the holes drilled, with 20, or 50% considered strongly mineralized (greater than 2 g Au/t and 2 metres in length). The 20 holes exhibiting strong mineralization yielded an average mineralized interval of approximately 7.4 metres with a weighted average grade of approximately 6.6 g Au/t. Approximately 35% of the holes exhibited strong, near surface mineralization, within the top 30 metres, yielding an average mineralized interval of approximately 9.5 metres with a weighted average grade of approximately 5.3 g Au/t while approximately 67% of the holes exhibit strong mineralization at depth, yielding an average mineralized interval of approximately 6.0 metres with a weighted average grade of approximately 7.6 g Au/t. The mineralized horizons at Lagoa Seca are more steeply dipping (approximately 75 - 80 degrees), have a greater apparent thickness and a higher overall sulfide content than the Mamao zone ore bodies. Previous metallurgical studies by CVRD resulted in estimated gold recoveries in excess of 90% using a conventional CIP flow sheet similar to that suggested for the Mamao orebodies.
The work program for Andorinhas during the first six months of 1998 will focus on conducting an initial core drilling campaign to confirm CVRD's past results and test the potential for down dip extension of the known zones of mineralization over the 1.1-kilometre strike length of the Lagoa Seca zones. The parameters of the scoping study will be used to evaluate development options, including smaller scale operations or staged development, as additional resources at Lagoa Seca and other potential targets on the Andorinhas property become better understood through further exploration.
During 1997, the Company spent $5.1 million on Andorinhas in continuing exploration and acquisition expenditures. Total exploration and acquisition expenditures in 1996 on the Andorinhas property were $3.4 million. On or about January 30, 1998, CVRD indicated to the Company that it does not intend to contribute in the future its share of the programs and budgets for the project and will therefore be diluted. CVRD may change its position and elect to contribute its then proportional interest to future expenditures. Budgeted expenditures by the Company at the project for the first six months of 1998 are $0.9 million.
AFRICAN PROPERTIES - ------------------
GENERAL
All of the Company's interests in mineral properties located in Africa are held through PARC. PARC was established under the Business Corporations Act (Yukon Territory) on February 6, 1996, as a result of the amalgamation, i.e., the ---- merger and continuation as one company (the "PARC Amalgamation"), of Humlin Red Lake Mines Limited, an Ontario corporation ("Humlin"), and PARC, which was then an approximately 85% owned subsidiary of the Company. PARC became a publicly traded company on February 8, 1996, with its common shares quoted on the Canadian Dealing Network.
In February 1998, the Board of Directors of PARC approved a proposal by the Company for a plan of arrangement (the "Arrangement") pursuant to which the Company would acquire all the shares of PARC not already owned by the Company. Under the Arrangement, the Company will issue one common share of the Company in exchange for each 50 common shares of PARC not owned by the Company. The issuance of the common shares by the Company pursuant to the Arrangement has been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. The effect of the Arrangement will be to transform PARC into a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company with the minority shareholders of PARC becoming shareholders of the Company. Based on the terms of the proposed transaction the Company will issue 388,590 common shares to acquire the 19,429,282 PARC shares not held by the Company. The special meeting of the shareholders of PARC is scheduled to be held on April 7, 1998 and the Company anticipates the transaction to close in April 1998.
As at December 31, 1997 PARC, had approximately $120,000 in cash which is insufficient to fund its ongoing administration and exploration activities. PARC's limited cash resources have also restricted PARC's ability to seize new opportunities in Africa. The significant decline in the price of gold and the corresponding negative impact on share prices of gold companies has had a material adverse affect on the ability of PARC to access capital on reasonable terms to fund its activities. Acquiring the PARC common shares held by the minority shareholders would allow the Company to better allocate its capital and other resources among its various projects, including those of PARC. The Company would then be in a better position to fund PARC's ongoing exploration activities and continue to seek new growth opportunities in Africa.
All of PARC's mineral properties are located in developing countries where there is a certain amount of political risk inherent in doing business. PARC was initially established to acquire a portfolio of projects in a number of countries across Africa in order to reduce the Company's total risk associated with conducting its activities in this region of the world by ensuring that adverse changes in the business or political environment in one or more countries would not affect PARC's activities in other countries where it operates.
During 1997, PARC spent approximately $3.1 million on exploration and property acquisition as compared to $5.9 million in 1996. The Company has budgeted $0.7 million to explore and administer PARC's remaining projects for the first six months of fiscal 1998.
PARC and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifies otherwise, are hereinafter referred to collectively as PARC.
COMOE PROJECT, IVORY COAST
The Republique de Cote d'Ivoire ("Ivory Coast"), located on the southern coastline of West Africa, covers an area of 322,000 km2 with a population of about 12 million people. Formerly a French colony, Ivory Coast achieved independence in 1960 and is currently governed as a democratic republic. The legal and land title systems of the country are based on French law and the official language is French.
The center of the Comoe property is located approximately 240 km due north of Abidjan, the principal city in Ivory Coast and is accessable by paved road from Abidjan.
On January 10, 1995, the Company and the Ministry of Mines and Energy of the Ivory Coast executed a Protocole d'Accord (the "Comoe Agreement") authorizing the Company to prospect in the Nassian-Bondoukou area, also
known in Ivory Coast as the Comoe area. Under the terms of the Comoe Agreement, the Company was granted exclusive reconnaissance rights over a 15,000 km2 area in Ivory Coast until December 1, 1995, together with the right to apply for exploration permits in respect of up to 25% of the Comoe property area (i.e., up --- to 3,750 km2) by that date. The reconnaissance work included an airborne geophysical survey and ground reconnaissance programs in respect of up to 25% of the Comoe property area. Upon the demonstration of the existence of a commercially exploitable deposit over a specific area an exploration permit may subsequently be converted, under certain conditions, into an exploitation permit covering the such area. PARC still holds five of the twelve exploration permits for gold, diamonds and related minerals that were granted under the Comoe Agreement. PARC has relinquished its rights to the seven other exploration permits that were initially granted under the Comoe agreements . The remaining exploration permits are valid for three years and are renewable for up to four additional years. The minimum expenditure requirements for these permits vary from $170,000 to $640,000 over a three-year period.
The Company formally assigned as of November 29, 1995 its rights in the Comoe Agreement (and any permits derived therefrom) to PARC, subject to approval of the Ivory Coast government. Prior to the assignment, all work and expenditures relating to the Comoe property in furtherance of the Comoe Agreement had already been supervised and funded through PARC.
Work Program
During 1997, PARC spent approximately $890,000 on continued exploration over four of the Comoe permits with the best results from and emphasis placed on the Tanda permit in the northeast of the Comoe property. Work completed on the Tanda permit included a reinterpretation of prior airborne geophysical surveys, 240 kilometres of soil traverses, detailed geologic mapping, 53 auger holes totaling approximately 209 metres and 820 channel samples.
The work on the Tanda permit identified over 20 distinct semi-continuous zones of anomalous gold mineralization over an area 10 kilometres long, close to the faulted contact between Birimian metavolcanic rocks and Tarkwain sediments. Mineralization appears to be associated with low angle thrust sheets that separate the sediments from the metavolcanics. Soil sampling identified 20 anomalies along the zones (>100 metres, > 100 ppb Au) with intervals up to 0.73 g Au/t over 670 metres. On a road cut near the village of Assafou, channel sampling was conducted over 820 metres across an outcrop of what appears to be silicified quartz veined Tarkwain sediments. The majority of the deep road cut proved anomalous with one interval of 210 metres exhibiting a weighted average grade of approximately 1.1 g Au/t.
A budget of approximately $275,000 has been proposed for work on the Tanda permit during the first six months of 1998. The work will focus on better defining and further delineating zones of gold mineralization near the village of Assafou with its anomalous road cut and inferred thrust zones. Proposed work includes further detailed mapping, ground geophysical surveys, detailed soil sampling, augering and rotary air blast (RAB) drilling. The Company is also seeking a partnership arrangement to fund exploration at the project.
NDORI, KENYA
Kenya is a former British colony which gained independence in 1963. The country has a population of approximately 28 million and covers an area of approximately 583,000 km2 in East Africa The official language is English. The government of Kenya is a democratic republic. Kenya had a vigorous gold mining industry during the early 1900's up to World War II. During the period of political turmoil in the 1950's and early 1960's leading up to independence, the Kenyan gold mining industry declined significantly. The current economy is dominated by tourism, coffee and other agricultural exports.
The Ndori property covers 1,300 km2 in western Kenya on the shores of Lake Victoria, due northwest of the city of Kisumu. Access to the property is good with a major road through the center of the property and several other traversing roads.
Pursuant to an agreement dated December 12, 1996, with San Martin Mining Research and Investment Company ("San Martin") and San Martin 96 S.A., PARC was granted the immediate and exclusive right to conduct prospecting, exploration, development or related activities on properties covering an area of approximately 1,300 km2 known as Ndori in the Kisumu region of Kenya. The Ndori license, which permits prospecting and exploration for gold and other precious metals, became effective on March 29, 1988, and expired on December 31, 1997. By its terms, the license is renewable "on application" to the Commissioner of Mines and Geology, made three months prior to expiration, "subject to negotiation" with the Commissioner. PARC was told by San Martin, the title holder and optionor, that it has filed a timely request for renewal and received a written confirmation from the Commissioner of Mines and Geology prior to the date of expiration stating that the license "will be renewed for another term" as soon as possible after its expiration, subject to the provisions of the mining code and the conditions of the license, among other things. The renewal has not been issued to date and there can be no assurance that the renewal will in fact be granted until all conditions are formally deemed met and the license formally renewed. PARC was also granted an exclusive option to apply for and acquire a 75% or greater interest in any mining lease issued pursuant to the Ndori license and any successor rights. In order to maintain its working right and option, PARC must incur expenditures of at least $0.6 million during each of the first and second twelve month periods of the agreement. Any first year expenditures by PARC in excess of $0.6 million shall be credited against PARC's expenditure commitments during the second year. PARC also committed to incur minimum expenditures during the third, fourth and fifth years of the agreement sufficient to maintain the Ndori License in good standing.
The geology of the Ndori property is an extension of the Lake Victoria Gold Field to the south in Tanzania, with the property lying within a well differentiated suite of Archean volcanics. Available geologic data from previous exploration programs by the United Nations Development Program and previous owners suggest the potential for quartz reef hosted, shear zone hosted and intrusive related gold mineralization. Approximately 40 old mines have been exploited on the property, 20 of which included milling facilities. Available records from exploration carried out in the 1980s by third parties indicate an existing calculated mineralized inventory of 100,000 tonnes grading 11.4 g Au/t at the Ngiga mine, 100,000 tonnes grading 13.7 g Au/t at the Coronation mine and 75,000 tonnes grading 9.5 g Au/t at the Kidson mine, totaling approximately 104,000 oz.
During 1997, PARC spent approximately $775,000 to complete a reconnaissance program over the whole of the Ndori property and initiate further investigation of the highest priority anomalies. Existing airborne geophysical surveys and satellite imagery over the property area was digitized and reinterpreted. Termite mound sampling was conducted at a density of one sample per square kilometre over the 1,300 square kilometre property. A total of 1,967 samples, including follow up samples, were collected and analyzed using the BLEG technique. In addition, 428 rock samples were collected and analyzed.
The 1997 work identified four anomalous areas: Western Area, where gold mineralization appears to be controlled by large intersecting structures and granitic intrusions; Abom-Odendo, where mineralization has been identified in and along the margin of a granodiorite intrusion and along cross cutting structures; Barding-Nduru, where gold mineralization appears to be controlled by intersecting structures; and Bondo, where gold mineralization appears also to be controlled by intersecting structures. These four areas host a number of old mines and produced anomalous rock and termite samples. Further follow up work, including 900 metres of trenching and 125 metres of augering, identified the Western Area as the highest priority target with three anomalous zones, Abimbo, Kitson and Kopolo, exhibiting elevated gold values associated within granodiorite intrusions and intersecting structures.
As a result of the Company's budgetary prioritization process, the Ndori property has been placed on care and maintenance at a cost of approximately $10,000 per month. PARC is actively seeking a joint venture partner to fund exploration in exchange for an interest in the property.
OTHER PROPERTIES IN AFRICA
On January 10, 1997, PARC sold its interest in Lafayette Mining Gabon Ltd. ("LMG"), which held an exploration permit on the Eteke property in Gabon, pursuant to the exercise of a right of first refusal by Lafayette Holdings Corp. ("Lafayette") under an option agreement (dated September 4, 1994) and a joint venture agreement (dated May 5, 1995) between Lafayette and PARC. Under its first right of refusal, Lafayette purchased all of PARC's interest in LMG and all related rights and obligations of PARC under the joint venture agreement, the option
agreement and any other related agreement for the sum of $640,000. PARC no longer has any interest in the Eteke property.
PARC has an indirect interest in a small scale exploitation authorization and an exploration permit covering the Dioulafoundou project in Mali. The Dioulafoundou project, including the Dioulafoundou and Fougala properties, is located in the Kenieba District of western Mali, situated approximately 350 kilometres west of Bamako, thecountry's capital, and 170 kilometres south of the town of Kayes. On March 7, 1997, PARC granted African Selection Mining Corporation ("ASM") a three-year option to acquire 50% of PARC's current, pending and future rights with respect to the four square kilometre Dioulafoundou property and the contiguous 24 square kilometre Fougala property.
During 1997, exploration was conducted at the Dioulafoundou project by ASM, including ground geophysical surveys, soil and rock sampling, limited trenching and core drilling. By September 1997, ASM had met its minimum exploration expenditures under the option agreement of $450,000. In October 1997, ASM informed PARC of its decision to terminate the option agreement. Following ASM's decision to terminate the option agreement and after evaluating alternatives, PARC relinquished its rights in the Dioulafoundou project and is in the process of relinquishing its rights in the Fougala property.
The Galla Valley property covers an area 30 kilometres long and 10 kilometres wide, located south of the capital city of Asmara in Eritrea. Pursuant to an agreement in 1996 with the Ministry of Energy, Mines and Water Resources of Eritrea, PARC and the Company were granted exclusive rights to explore six license areas of 50 square kilometres each, for a total area of 300 square kilometres in an area known in Eritrea as the Galla Valley. Core drilling in late 1996 and early 1997 failed to demonstrate the potential for bulk-minable gold mineralization at the Adi Rassi and Torat targets in the southern half of the property area. Phase II work through the remainder of 1997 included completion of the regional exploration program over the property and follow up exploration at the Adi Casci target in the northern half of the property area. The initial trenching results obtained at Adi Casci were not extended to depth by a limited 11 hole, 846 meter reverse circulation drilling campaign in late 1997. Since completion of the 1997 program identified no further targets, PARC informed the Ministry of its intention to abandon the property at the conclusion of year two under the agreement in June 1998. After consultation with the Ministry, PARC initiated closure of its Asmara office in December 1997.
The Dul Mountain property is located approximately 500 kilometres west-northwest of Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia. The western boundary of the property is situated along the border with Sudan. Exploration licenses for the Dul Mountain property were granted to the Company pursuant to an agreement with the Ethiopian Ministry of Mines and Energy. The Company subsequently assigned its rights and the exploration licenses granted under the agreement, to PARC. During 1997, PARC completed a limited program to follow up anomalies identified during 1996 in the eastern portion of the Dul Mountain property following the relinquishment of the western 75% of the property area. Since this program failed to identify any new areas of interest, PARC informed the Ministry of Mines and Energy of Ethiopia of its intention to relinquish the property at the conclusion of year three under the agreements in May 1998. PARC spent approximately $353,000 on exploration on the property in 1997. After consultation with the Ministry, PARC initiated closure of its Addis Ababa office in August 1997.
The Kolissen property covers 2,870 km2 in central Gabon. The Company was granted in August 1995 a three year exploration permit on the Kolissen property. The Company assigned its rights in the permit to PARC as of November 29, 1995, subject to the approval of the Government of Gabon. On February 18, 1997, PARC and the Company signed an option agreement with Adamas Resources Corp. ("Adamas") granting Adamas the sole and exclusive option to acquire a 50% interest in all of PARC's current and future rights to the Kolissen property. Adamas recently informed PARC of its decision to withdraw from the option agreement and therefore relinquish any rights it may have had in the property. PARC does not plan on any further work on this project.
The Melgue property is located approximately 60 kilometres north of the regional centre of Kayes in Western Mali. PARC entered into a mineral agreement dated October 18, 1995 with the Government of Mali represented by the Ministry of Mines, Energy and Hydrology for the Melgue property. The agreement has a term of up to 30 years. An exploration permit covering the Melgue property was granted pursuant to the agreement to PARC on December 11, 1995, for a period of three years. During 1997, PARC conducted limited follow up soil sampling and
geologic mapping over areas of interest defined during the 1996 regional exploration program. This follow up program failed to identify anomalous zones warranting further work. PARC is in the process of preparing a final report to the Mali Ministry of Geology and Mines on the Melgue property. PARC has informed the Ministry of its intention to relinquish the permit following acceptance by the government of the final report. PARC has committed to spend at least $680,000 in connection with the Melgue property during the first 24 months following the grant of the exploration permit on December 11, 1995 failing which PARC will have to reimburse the Government of Mali an amount equal to the difference between its commitment of $680,000 and the amount spent on the project. PARC is currently trying to be released from the $560,000 balance of its expenditure commitment in connection with the Melgue property. Although PARC expects to be released from this commitment, there can be no assurance that the government will accede to PARC's request.
On January 20, 1998, PARC and the Company notified Harry Winston Inc., Precious Stones Sierra Leone Baomahun Inc. and Baomahun Gold Mines Ltd. that they were terminating the option agreement concerning the Baomahun, Victoria and Waia properties in Sierra Leone, effective as of the date of the notice, as a result of the duration of a state of "force majeure" under the option agreement for a period of over three years.
In 1997, the Company and PARC jointly applied for an exploration permit for diamonds covering 790 km2 over an area in Ivory Coast known as Tortiya. On February 25, 1998, PARC was notified by the government of the Ivory Coast that the permit has been granted to PARC. Pursuant to an agreement dated February 19, 1998, PARC and the Company have 25% and 75% beneficial interests, respectively, in the property. The Tortiya alluvial/eluvial diamond occurrence was discovered in 1947 and was mined industrially until 1975 producing substantial quantities of gem and near-gem quality diamonds. PARC has budgeted approximately $120,000 for initial stage exploration work on the Tortiya property in the first half of 1998.
ITEM 3.