ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth certain pro forma information for the year ended December 31, 1996 with respect to the Hotels. For hotels acquired during 1996, this information includes the actual operating results both prior and subsequent to acquisition by the Partnership.
(1) Represents operations since the opening of hotel in July 1996 for the Hampton Inn in Plano, TX, in November 1996 for the Homewood Suites in Salt Lake City, UT, and in December 1996 for the Hampton Inn in Houston, TX and the Courtyard by Marriott in Flint, MI.
Recent Acquisitions and Pending Developments. The Partnership acquired four Sheraton Hotels in California with a total of 814 rooms on January 2, 1997 for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $91 million, consisting of cash and 2,244,934 operating partnership units. The Partnership is developing six hotels in the following areas: Jacksonville, FL, Chandler, AZ (2), Plano, TX, Sedona, AZ and Crystal Lake, IL. Completion of these hotels is expected during 1997.
Master Agreement. The Company and the Partnership have entered into a master agreement, (the "Master Agreement"), with the Lessees. Under the Master Agreement, the Company and the Partnership have granted to the Lessees, a right of first offer and right of first refusal (the "Right of First Refusal") to lease hotels acquired by the Partnership or the Company until February 27, 2006 (the "Term"), subject to certain exceptions described below.
During the Term, the Partnership and the Company must deliver to the Lessees a written notice specifying the proposed Base Rent and Percentage Rent upon which the Partnership would be willing to lease a proposed acquisition or development hotel to the Lessees. In the event the Lessees do not agree within 15 days to lease the particular hotel pursuant to the rent terms set forth in the notice, the Partnership may seek an alternative lessee; provided, however, that before executing a lease with such alternative lessee, the Partnership must send a second notice to the Lessees setting forth the final rent terms of the proposed lease between the Partnership and such alternative lessee. The Lessees will then have 5 days to elect to lease the hotel from the Partnership upon the terms set forth in the second notice. If the Lessees do not make such election, the Partnership may enter into a lease with the alternative lessee upon the terms set forth in the second notice.
The Partnership may terminate the Right of First Refusal at any time following February 27, 2003, in the event the hotels leased by the Lessees throughout such seven-year period fail to meet certain financial performance goals. The Partnership may also terminate the Right of First Refusal: (i) upon the occurrence under a lease of an "Event of Default" by the Lessees; (ii) in the event the Company's status as a real estate investment trust is terminated and the leases are terminated by the Company, and the Company (a) redeems all outstanding Series A Preferred Stock owned by the RFS, Inc. at a price per share equal to the greater of (A) $19.00 or (B) the average sales prices for the Company's Common Stock for the ten trading days prior to the closing date, (b) the Partnership pays the Lessees the fair market value of the remaining terms of the leases and (c) if such termination occurs prior to February 27, 2006, the Partnership pays the Lessees an amount equal to $5,000,000 minus $41,667 for each calendar month which has expired since February 27, 1996; or (iii) if RFS, Inc. fails to maintain a minimum net worth of $15,000,000 during the term of any lease or defaults under the terms of the Master Agreement.
The Right of First Refusal will not apply to hotels acquired or developed by the Partnership where the seller requires, after the Partnership's reasonable efforts to obtain a price at which the lease or management of the hotel could be bought out or to obtain a price for the hotel without the seller's continued management, that the seller or an affiliate of the seller be the lessee or the manager of the hotel following acquisition by the Partnership ("Excluded Hotels"). The aggregate purchase prices for the Excluded Hotels cannot, in the aggregate, exceed 20% of the aggregate purchase prices for all hotels acquired by the Partnership during the Term.
The Right of First Refusal also will not apply to the acquisition by the Partnership of any hotel (a "Subject Hotel") located in proximity to a hotel (a "Competing Hotel") owned, leased, managed or franchised by the Lessees or an affiliate of the Lessees such that the ownership, lease, management or franchise of the Competing Hotel would violate the non-competition provisions of the lease with respect to the Subject Hotel if a lease were entered into between the Partnership and the Lessees. The foregoing exception to the Right of First Refusal will not apply if the ownership, lease, management or franchise of the Competing Hotel is pursuant to a lease or other agreement with the Partnership, and even if the exception is applicable, the Partnership must notify the Lessee of its proposed acquisition of the Subject Hotel so that the Lessees have the opportunity to terminate its ownership, lease, management or franchise of the Competing Hotel, or take such other action as is necessary, in order to allow the Lessees to enter into a percentage lease with respect to the Subject Hotel without violating the non-competition restrictions.
The Right of First Refusal is also inapplicable to any hotels acquired by the Partnership from a real estate investment trust other than the Company in connection with the acquisition by the Partnership of substantially all of the hotels of such other real estate investment trust, whether by merger, purchase of assets or otherwise.
RFS, Inc. is required to maintain a $15,000,000 tangible net worth during the terms of the Leases. The Master Agreement provides that there can be no change in control of the Lessees without prior consent of the Partnership.
The Percentage Leases. Each hotel owned by the Partnership is separately leased to the Lessees under a Percentage Lease.
Effective February 27, 1996, each of the Percentage Leases between the Partnership and RFS, Inc. was amended to provide the following among other things: (i) the term of each Percentage Lease was increased to 15 years from the date of inception; (ii) the non-compete provisions were amended to preclude the Lessees or its Affiliates from owning, leasing, operating, managing or franchising any hotel or motel within a five-mile radius of any hotel in which the Partnership or an Affiliate of the Partnership has an interest, as compared to a previous 20-mile radius restriction; (iii) events of default shall include, among others, (a) the failure of the Lessees to pay quarterly percentage rent when due and payable and continuing for a 10-day period after receipt of notice from the Partnership, as compared to the previous 90-day period and (b) occurrence of an event of default under the Master Agreement (iv) the Lessees shall be required, not later than 60 days prior to commencement of each lease year, to prepare and submit to the Partnership an operating budget and marketing plan; (v) the termination of any Percentage Lease due to total condemnation will not affect any other Percentage Leases then in effect between the Lessee and the Partnership; (vi) any management fee payable to an Affiliate of the Lessees shall be subordinate to the payment of rent to the Partnership under the leases; (vii) future leases entered into between the Lessees and the Partnership will not be subject to cross-default provisions in regard to the existing percentage leases or other future leases; (viii) the Lessees will have an extended right (120 days as compared to 90 days) to cure defaults under the franchise agreements; (ix) the respective obligations of the parties relating to capital expenditures and repairs and maintenance were clarified and amended, (x) the Partnership will have 120 days to tender a substitute lease to the Lessee upon sale of a hotel by the Partnership, as compared to 90 days previously, and, (xi) percentage rent is payable within 35 days following the end of the first three calendar quarters and on or before February 10 with respect to the fourth calendar quarter.
On November 21, 1996, a new limited purpose subsidiary of the Partnership issued $75,000,000 of commercial mortgage bonds secured by 15 of the Hotels. In connection with the issuance of the bonds, the Master Agreement was amended and new Percentage Leases were entered into for the 15 Hotels by subsidiaries of the Partnership and the existing Lessee under terms substantially similar to the existing Percentage Leases. The Percentage Leases for the 15 Hotels are not cross-defaulted with the Percentage Leases for the other Hotels.
Percentage Lease Terms. Fifteen of the Percentage Leases have terms expiring on December 31, 2011 and each of the other Percentage Leases has a term expiring fifteen years from the date of inception. Each Percentage Lease is subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Percentage Lease.
Amounts Payable Under the Percentage Leases. During the term of each Percentage Lease, the Lessee is obligated to pay (i) the greater of Base Rent or Percentage Rent and (ii) certain other amounts, including interest accrued on any late payments or charges (the "Additional Charges"). Base Rent accrues and is required to be paid monthly; Percentage Rent is payable quarterly, on or before the 35th day following the end of each of the first three calendar quarters in each fiscal year and on or before February 10 of the next year, with respect to the fourth calendar quarter of each
fiscal year, and is calculated by multiplying fixed percentages by room revenue and, with respect to the full service Hotels, beverage revenue and food revenue. For the year ended December 31, 1996, room revenue for each of the Hotels exceeded the amount required to trigger the top tier of room revenue payable as Percentage Rent. The following table summarizes the percentages of room revenues in excess of certain levels payable as Percentage Rent under the Percentage Leases.
(1) Percentage Rent formula also includes 20% of beverage revenue and 5% of food revenue.
The rent terms for the leases for each Hotel are set forth in Exhibit 10.2(a) to this Form 10-K.
Under the Percentage Leases for all of the hotels acquired since March 1994, beginning in 1995 and for each year thereafter, the Base Rent and Percentage Rent thresholds for each year will be adjusted to reflect any year-to-year changes in the consumer price index ("CPI") in the two preceding years. Additionally, the Company anticipates the Percentage Leases for hotels acquired in the future will have a similar provision.
Other than real estate taxes, casualty insurance and maintenance of underground utilities and structural elements, which are obligations of the Partnership, the Percentage Leases require the Lessees to pay rent, personal property taxes, all costs and expenses and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of the Hotels. The Percentage Leases also provide for rent reductions and abatements in the event of a partial taking of any Hotel or six months after occurrence of an event causing damage or destruction to any Hotel.
Maintenance and Modifications. Under the Percentage Leases, the Partnership is required to maintain the underground utilities and the structural elements of the improvements, including exterior walls (excluding plate glass) and the roof of each Hotel. The Partnership is required to fund capital improvements at the Hotels subject to (i) the Partnership's right to approve capital budgets and (ii) the Partnership's right in its sole discretion to refuse to make any capital expenditures required by a franchisor. Otherwise, the Lessees are required, at their expense, to maintain the Hotels in good order and repair, except for ordinary wear and tear, and to make non-structural, foreseen and unforeseen, and ordinary and extraordinary, repairs which may be necessary and appropriate to keep the Hotels in good order and repair.
The Lessees, at their expense and with the Lessor's prior consent, may make non-capital and capital additions, modifications or improvements to the Hotels, provided that such action does not significantly alter the character or purposes of the Hotels or significantly detract from the value or operating efficiencies of the Hotels. All such alterations, replacements and improvements are
subject to all the terms and provisions of the Percentage Leases and will become the property of the Partnership upon termination of the Percentage Leases. The Partnership owns substantially all personal property (other than inventory, linens, and other nondepreciable personal property) not affixed to or deemed a part of, the real estate or improvements thereon comprising the Hotels, except to the extent that ownership of such personal property would cause the rents under the Percentage Leases not to qualify as "rents from real property" for REIT income test purposes.
Insurance and Property Taxes. The Partnership is responsible for paying real estate taxes and casualty insurance premiums on the Hotels. The Lessees are required to pay or reimburse the Partnership for all other insurance on the Hotels, which must include extended coverage, comprehensive general public liability, workers' compensation and other insurance appropriate and customary for properties similar to the Hotels and name the Partnership as an additional insured.
Indemnification. Under each of the Percentage Leases, the Lessees have agreed to indemnify, and are obligated to hold harmless, the Partnership and its Affiliates, including the Company, from and against all liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by, imposed upon or asserted against the Partnership or its Affiliates, on account of, among other things, (i) any accident or injury to person or property on or about the Hotels; (ii) any misuse by the Lessees or any of its agents of the leased property; (iii) any environmental liability resulting from conditions caused or resulting from any action or negligence of the Lessees; (iv) taxes and assessments in respect of the Hotels (other than real estate taxes and income taxes of the Company or Partnership on income attributable to the Hotels); (v) liability resulting from the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages on or in the real property or improvements thereon; or (vi) any breach of the Percentage Leases by Lessees; provided, however, that such indemnification will not be construed to require the Lessees to indemnify the Company and the Partnership against the Company's or Partnership's own grossly negligent acts or omissions or willful misconduct.
Assignment and Subleasing. The Lessees are not permitted to sublet all or any part of the Hotels or assign its interest under any of the Percentage Leases, other than to an Affiliate of the Lessees, without the prior written consent of the Partnership.
Damage to Hotels. In the event of damage to or destruction of any Hotel covered by insurance, whether or not such damage or destruction renders the Hotel unsuitable for the Lessees' use and occupancy , the Lessees are obligated to the extent of any insurance proceeds made available to the Lessee and any other sums advanced by the Partnership, to repair, rebuild, or restore the Hotel on the terms set forth in the applicable Percentage Lease. If the insurance proceeds are not adequate to restore the Hotel, each of the Lessees and the Partnership has the right to terminate the Percentage Lease without affecting any other Percentage Leases in effect between the Lessees and the Partnership, by giving notice to the other. The Partnership will retain the insurance proceeds. If the Lessees terminate the Percentage Lease due to the inadequacy of the insurance proceeds, the Partnership may nullify the termination and keep the Percentage Lease in full force by providing within 30 days after receipt of notice of termination the Partnership's unconditional, legally binding obligation to be responsible for restoration costs in excess of the insurance proceeds. If the Percentage Lease is terminated by either the Lessees or the Partnership due to the inadequacy of the insurance proceeds and the inadequacy of insurance proceeds was the
result of the Partnership's failure to maintain the proper insurance coverage as required, the Partnership must, within 180 days, pay the Lessee the fair market value of the applicable Percentage Lease on the date of termination or offer other percentage leases to the Lessees having an aggregate fair market value of no less than the fair market value of the applicable Percentage Lease. If damage or destruction of a Hotel is not covered by insurance, the provisions of the Percentage Lease which govern inadequacy of coverage apply. The Percentage Lease shall remain in full force and effect during the first six months of any period required for repair or restoration of any damaged or destroyed Hotel, after which time, rent will be equitably abated.
Condemnation of Hotels. In the event of a total condemnation of a Hotel, the relevant Percentage Lease will terminate with respect to such Hotel as of the date of taking the Partnership and the Lessees will be entitled to their shares of any condemnation award in accordance with the provision of the Percentage Lease. In the event of a partial taking which does not render the Hotel unsuitable for the Lessees' use, the Lessees shall restore the untaken portion of the Hotel to a complete architectural unit but only to the extent of any condemnation awards made available to Lessee or amounts advanced by Partnership. If the condemnation award is not adequate to restore a Hotel, each of the Lessees and Partnership have the right to terminate the Percentage Lease on the Hotel without affecting the other leases between the Lessees and the Partnership then in effect..
Events of Default. Events of Default under the Percentage Leases include, among others, the following:
(i) the occurrence of an Event of Default under any other lease between the Partnership and the Lessees or any Affiliate of the Lessees (with respect to the leases entered into prior to February 27, 1996);
(ii) The failure by the Lessees to pay Base Rent when due and the continuation of such failure for a period of 10 days after receipt by the Lessees of notice from the Partnership thereof;
(iii) the failure by the Lessees to pay the excess of Percentage Rent over Base Rent when due and continuation of such failure for a period of 10 days after receipt by the Lessee of Notice from the Partnership thereof;
(iv) the failure by the Lessees to observe or perform any other term of a Percentage Lease and the continuation of such failure for a period of 30 days after receipt by the Lessees of notice from the Partnership thereof, unless such failure cannot be cured within such period and the Lessees commence appropriate action to cure such failure within said 30 days and thereafter acts, with diligence, to correct such failure within such time as is necessary;
(v) if the Lessees shall file a petition in bankruptcy or reorganization pursuant to any federal or state bankruptcy law or any similar federal or state law, or shall be adjudicated a bankrupt or shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or if a petition or answer proposing the adjudication of the Lessees as a bankrupt or its reorganization pursuant to any federal or state bankruptcy law or any similar federal or state law shall be filed in any court and the Lessees shall be adjudicated a bankrupt and such adjudication shall not be vacated or set aside or stayed within 60
days after the entry of an order in respect thereof, or if a receiver of the Lessees or of the whole or substantially all of the assets of the Lessees shall be appointed in any proceeding brought by the Lessees or if any such receiver, trustee or liquidator shall be appointed in any proceeding brought against the Lessees shall not be vacated or set aside or stayed within 60 days after such appointment;
(vi) if the Lessees voluntarily discontinue operations of a Hotel for more than 30 days, except as a result of damage, destruction, or condemnation; or
(vii) if the franchise agreement with respect to a Hotel is terminated by the franchisor as a result of any action or failure to act by the Lessees or its agents, other than a failure to complete a capital improvement required by the franchisor as a result of the Company's failure to fund the capital improvement; or
(viii) if the Lessees default under the Master Agreement.
If an Event of Default occurs and continues beyond any curative period, the Partnership will have the option of terminating the Percentage Lease and may terminate any other Percentage Lease which is subject to a cross-default with such Percentage Lease by giving the Lessees ten days' written notice of the date for termination of the Percentage Leases and, unless such Event of Default is cured prior to the termination date set forth in said notice, the Percentage Leases shall terminate on the date specified in the Company's notice and the Lessee is required to surrender possession of the affected Hotels.
Termination of Percentage Leases on Disposition of the Hotels. In the event the Partnership enters into an agreement to sell or otherwise transfer a Hotel, the Partnership will have the right to terminate the Percentage Lease with respect to such Hotel and either (i) pay the Lessees the fair market value of the Lessees' leasehold interest in the remaining term of the Percentage Lease to be terminated or (ii) within 120 days of termination of the lease, offer to lease to Lessees a substitute hotel on terms that would create a leasehold interest in such Hotel with a fair market value equal to or exceeding the fair market value of the Lessees' remaining leasehold interest under the Percentage Lease to be terminated.
Franchise License. The Lessees are the licensee under the franchise licenses on the hotels currently owned by the Partnership and are expected to hold the franchise licenses for future hotels leased from the Partnership. Upon the occurrence of certain events of default by the Lessees under a franchise license, each franchisor has agreed to transfer the franchise license for the hotel to the Partnership (or its designee). The Company anticipates that the franchisors of the hotels currently under contract will agree to a similar arrangement. In exchange, the Partnership has guaranteed all of the Lessees' franchise payments under the franchise agreements.
Other Lease Covenants. The Lessees have agreed that during the term of the Percentage Leases it will maintain a ratio of total debt to consolidated net worth (as defined in the Percentage Leases) of not more than 50%, exclusive of capitalized leases. Management fees paid to affiliates of the Lessees are subordinated to the lease payments.
Breach by Partnership. If the Partnership fails to cure a breach by it under a Percentage Lease, the Lessees may purchase the relevant Hotel from the Partnership for a purchase price equal to at least the Hotel's then fair market value. Upon notice from the Lessees that the Partnership has breached the Lease, the Partnership has 30 days to cure the breach or proceed to cure the breach, which period may be extended in the event of certain specified, unavoidable delays.
Inventory. All inventory required in the operation of the Hotels is purchased and owned by the Lessee at its expense. The Partnership has the option to purchase all inventory related to a particular Hotel at its fair market value upon termination of the related Percentage Lease.
Franchise Agreements. All but one of the Hotels, the Executive Inn in Tupelo, Mississippi, are licensed to operate under a franchise license. Seventeen Hotels are licensed as Hampton Inn hotels, twelve are licensed as Residence Inn hotels, six are licensed as Comfort Inn hotels, seven are licensed as Holiday Inn Express hotels, six are licensed as Holiday Inn hotels, one is licensed as a Hawthorn Suites hotel, one is licensed as a Doubletree hotel, one is licensed as a Homewood Suites, one is licensed as a Courtyard by Marriott and one is licensed as a Ramada Hotel. Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express are registered trademarks of Holiday Inn, Inc. Ramada Hotel is a registered trademark of Franchise System Holdings, Inc. Comfort Inn is a registered trademark of Choice Hotels International, Inc. Residence Inn and Courtyard by Marriott are registered trademarks of Marriott Corporation. Hampton Inn and Homewood Suites are registered trademarks of The Promus Companies, Inc. Hawthorn Suites is a registered trademark of Hawthorn Suites Hotels. Doubletree is a registered trademark of Doubletree Corporation.
The franchise licenses generally specify certain management, operational, recordkeeping, accounting, reporting and marketing standards and procedures with which the Lessees, Alpha and TMH as applicable, must comply. The franchise licenses obligate the Lessees to comply with the franchisor' standards and requirements with respect to training of operational personnel, safety, maintaining specified insurance, the types of services and products ancillary to guest room services that may be provided by the Lessee, display of signage, and the type, quality and age of furniture, fixtures and equipment included in guest rooms, lobbies and other common areas.
The Lessees hold the franchise license for each Hotel. The Partnership paid the franchise license application fees with respect to the Hotels. The franchisors may require the Partnership to complete certain capital improvements to certain of the Hotels. The Partnership will fund the costs of the improvements and will own the improvements. The Company estimates that all of such required improvements to Hotels will be completed by the middle of 1997. The franchisors of any Hotels on which improvements have been required will permit the operation of such Hotels prior to completion of the improvements under conditional franchise license.
Each franchise license gives the Lessees the right to operate the particular Hotel under a franchise for a period of from ten to 20 years. The franchise agreements provide for termination at the franchisor's option upon the occurrence of certain events, including the Lessees' failure to pay royalties and fees or perform its other covenants under the license agreement, bankruptcy, abandonment of the franchise, commission of a felony, assignment of the license without the consent of the franchisor, or failure to comply with applicable law in the operation of the relevant hotel. The Lessees are entitled to terminate the franchise license only by giving at least 12 months
notice and paying a specified amount of liquidated damages. The license agreements will not renew automatically upon expiration. The Lessees are responsible for making all payments under the franchise agreements to the franchisors. Under the Holiday Inn franchise agreements, the Lessees are required to pay a franchise fee of 4% of room revenue (plus additional fees) from the Hotels operating as Holiday Inn hotels and a franchise fee ranging from 4-5% of room revenue (plus additional fees) from the Hotels operating as Holiday Inn Express hotels. Under the Ramada franchise agreement, the Lessees are required to pay a franchise fee of 3% of revenue from the Ramada Hotel, plus fees for use of the reservation system and other miscellaneous fees. Under the Comfort Inn franchise agreements, the Lessees are required to pay a franchise fee ranging from 4-5% of revenue for the Hotels operating as Comfort Inn hotels plus fees for use of the reservation system and other miscellaneous fees. Under the Promus Companies, Inc. franchise agreements, the Lessees are required to pay a franchise fee ranging from 4-5% of room revenue (plus additional fees) from the Hotels operating as Hampton Inn hotels and 5% from the Hotels operating as Homewood Suites hotels. Under the Marriott Corporation franchise agreement, the Lessees are required to pay a franchise fee ranging from 3-5% of room revenue (plus additional fees) from the Hotels operating as Residence Inn hotels and 5% from the Hotels operating as Courtyard by Marriott hotels. Under the Hawthorn Suites franchise agreement, the Lessees are required to pay a franchise fee of 4% of room revenue (plus additional fees) from the Hotels operating as Hawthorn Suites. Under the Doubletree Corporation franchise agreement, the Lessees are required to pay 3% from the Hotels operating as Doubletree hotels.
The franchisors have agreed that, in the event of a default by the Lessees under a franchise agreement with respect to a franchised Hotel currently owned by the Partnership, the franchise license for that Hotel will be assigned to the Partnership or a designee of the Partnership acceptable to the franchisor. The Partnership anticipates that the franchisors of future hotels acquired will agree to similar arrangements. The Partnership will be obligated to pay the franchisor's actual costs of investigating the Partnership's designee and processing the transfer, but will pay no transfer fee. In consideration of the franchisors' agreements to transfer the franchise licenses upon default by the Lessees as described above, the Partnership has agreed to guarantee the Lessees' obligations to make the franchise fee payments to the franchisors under the franchise agreements.
ITEM 3.