ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Proved Reserves Disclosures
Recent Securities and Exchange Commission Rule-Making Activity
In December 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission announced that it had approved revisions designed to modernize the oil and gas company reserves reporting requirements. The most significant amendments to the requirements included the following:
·
Commodity Prices - Economic producibility of reserves and discounted cash flows are now based on the use of unweighted, 12-month first day of the month historical average prices adjusted for basis and quality differentials, rather than year-end prices.
·
Disclosure of Unproved Reserves - Probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis.
·
Proved Undeveloped Reserves Guidelines - Reserves may be classified as proved undeveloped if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
·
Third-Party Reserves Preparation - If a company represents that its estimates of reserves are prepared or audited by a third party, the company must file a report of the third party as an exhibit to the relevant registration statement or report.
·
Use of Probabilistic Methods - Reserves may be estimated using probabilistic methods in which there is at least a 90% probability of recovery of “proved” reserves, at least a 50% probability of recovery of “probable” reserves, and at least a 10% probability of recovery of “possible” reserves.
·
Disclosure by Geographic Area - Reserves in foreign countries or continents must be presented separately if they represent more than 15% of total oil and gas proved reserves.
Additional disclosure as provided below was also required by the Securities and Exchange Commission revisions. We adopted the rules effective December 31, 2009.
Effect of Adoption
Application of the new rules resulted in the use of lower prices at December 31, 2009, for both oil and gas than would have resulted under the previous rules. Use of 12-month average pricing at December 31, 2009, as required by the new rules, resulted in a decrease in proved developed oil reserves of approximately 990,000 cubic feet of natural gas equivalent. Changes in the proved undeveloped reserves rules had no impact on our reserve quantities, as we do not include any reserves for undrilled locations.
Internal Controls over Reserves Estimates
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates requires reserves to be in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with generally accepted petroleum engineering principles. Responsibility for compliance in reserves bookings is delegated to our operations and finance staff, who submit technical and financial data to third-party engineering firms.
Estimates of our proved Polish reserves were calculated by RPS Energy, an independent engineering firm in the United Kingdom. Estimates of our proved domestic reserves were calculated by Hohn Engineering, an independent engineering firm in Billings, Montana. The technical personnel responsible for calculating the reserve estimates at both RPS Energy and Hohn Engineering meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Both RPS Energy and Hohn Engineering are independent firms of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists; they do not own an interest in our properties and are not employed on a contingent fee basis.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
As of December 31, 2009, our proved undeveloped reserves totaled 27.3 Bcf of natural gas. All of our proved undeveloped reserves are located in Poland, and all are associated with wells that have been drilled, tested, and completed for production. We do not have any proved undeveloped reserves attributable to undrilled locations. These reserves are classified as proved undeveloped because relatively major expenditures are required for the completion of production facilities, which includes the construction of pipelines to connect the wells to the existing pipeline in order to fully develop the reserves and commence production. The development of such undeveloped reserves is not dependent on additional drilling on undrilled acreage. All development activities will be completed within five years.
Changes in Proved Undeveloped Reserves
Changes in proved undeveloped reserves that occurred during the year were primarily due to:
·
conversion of approximately 14.6 Bcf of existing proved undeveloped reserves into proved developed reserves upon the commencement of production at our Roszkow well; and
·
new proved undeveloped reserves of approximately 4.6 Bcf associated with the Kromolice-2 well that we completed in early 2009.
Development Costs
Costs incurred relating to the development of proved undeveloped reserves were approximately $3.7 million in 2009, all of which was attributable to the construction of production facilities at Roszkow.
Estimated future development costs relating to the development of proved undeveloped reserves are projected to be approximately $8.2 million in 2010 and $3.9 million in 2011. The estimated development costs are for the design and construction of facilities at our KSK wells in 2010 and our Winna Gora well in 2011.
For more information see the following:
·
Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Proved Reserves for a discussion of changes in proved reserves;
·
Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Oil and Gas Reserves for further discussion of our reserves estimation process;
·
Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Supplementary Oil and Gas Information (Unaudited) for additional information regarding estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves, including estimates of proved, proved developed, and proved undeveloped reserves, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and the changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Other Reserves Information
Since January 1, 2009, no crude oil or natural gas reserves information has been filed with, or included in any report to, any other federal authority or agency.
Reserve Volumes and Values
The following table sets forth our estimated proved developed, proved undeveloped, and probable reserves volumes as of December 31, 2009:
The following table sets forth the estimated PV-10 (after tax) values of our proved plus probable reserves as of December 31, 2009:
Our proved reserves were calculated using both deterministic and probabilistic methods. Our proved reserves were calculated using deterministic methods. Our probable reserves were calculated using probabilistic methods and represent the 50% probability that the actual quantities recovered will be equal to or greater than the proved plus probable estimate. No additional drilling is required at any of our Polish wells to achieve the recovery of the probable reserves. The larger quantity of proved reserves plus probable reserves, as compared to proved reserves only, is attributable largely to using a less conservative interpretation of reservoir size and recovery factor in estimating probable reserves.
Drilling Activities
The following table sets forth the exploratory wells that we drilled during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007:
Wells and Acreage
As of December 31, 2009, our producing gross and net well count consisted of the following:
_______________
(1)
As of December 31, 2009, we had four wells in Poland awaiting the construction of production facilities.
(2)
All of our producing United States wells are oil wells. We have no gas production in the United States.
The following table sets forth our gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage as of December 31, 2009:
_______________
(1)
All gross and net undeveloped Polish acreage is rounded to the nearest 1,000 acres.
Polish Properties
Producing Properties
A summary of our average daily production, average working interest, and net revenue interest for our Poland producing properties during 2009 follows:
_______________
(1)
Average daily net production amounts shown are calculated based on days of actual production.
Production, Transportation and Marketing
We began producing and selling gas from our Roszkow well in late 2009. Production from our Wilga well ceased during 2009. We expect production will increase as we place four previous discoveries into production in 2010 and 2011.
The following table sets forth our net daily oil and gas production, average sales price, and average production costs associated with our Polish production during 2009, 2008, and 2007:
_______________
(1)
Average daily net production amounts shown are calculated based on days of actual production.
(2)
Production costs include lifting costs (electricity, fuel, water, disposal, repairs, maintenance, transportation, and similar items) and contract operator fees. Production costs do not include such items as general and administrative costs; depreciation, depletion and amortization; or Polish income taxes.
Poland has a network of gas pipelines and crude oil pipelines traversing the country serving major metropolitan, commercial, industrial, and gas production areas, including significant portions of our acreage. Poland has a well-developed infrastructure of hard-surfaced roads and railways over which oil produced can be transported for sale. There are refineries in Gdansk and Plock in Poland and one in Germany near the western Polish border that we believe could process crude oil produced in Poland. Should we choose to export any gas or oil we produce, we will be required to obtain prior governmental approval.
We are currently selling substantially all of our oil and gas production in Poland to POGC or one of its affiliates. Gas is sold pursuant to long-term sales contracts, typically for the life of each well, which obligate POGC to purchase all gas produced. Individual oil sales are negotiated with POGC-affiliated entities and are not subject to sales contracts.
United States Properties
Producing Properties
In the United States, we currently produce oil in Montana and Nevada. All of our producing properties, except for the Rattlers Butte field (an exploratory discovery during 1997), were purchased during 1994. A summary of our average daily production, average working interest, and net revenue interest for our United States producing properties during 2009 follows:
In Montana, we operate the Cut Bank and Bears Den fields and have an interest in the Rattlers Butte field, which is operated by an industry partner. Production in the Cut Bank field, producing since the 1940s from an average depth of approximately 2,900 feet, is from a waterflood program with 115 producing oil wells, 28 active injection wells, and one active water supply well. The Bears Den field, under waterflood since 1990, is producing oil from five wells at a depth of approximately 2,430 feet, with one active water injection well. In the Rattlers Butte field, we own a 6.3% working interest in two oil wells producing at a depth of approximately 5,800 feet and one active water injection well.
In Nevada, we operate the Trap Springs and Munson Ranch fields and have an interest in the Bacon Flat field, which is operated by an industry partner. In the Trap Springs field, discovered in 1976, we produce oil from a depth of approximately 3,700 feet from one well. In the Munson Ranch field, discovered in 1988, we produce oil at an average depth of 3,800 feet from five wells. In the Bacon Flat field, discovered in 1981, we produce oil from one well at a depth of approximately 5,000 feet.
Production, Transportation and Marketing
The following table sets forth our average net daily oil production, average sales price, and average production costs associated with our United States oil production during 2009, 2008, and 2007:
_______________
(1)
Production costs include lifting costs (electricity, fuel, water, disposal, repairs, maintenance, pumper, transportation, and similar items) and production taxes. Production costs do not include such items as general and administrative costs; depreciation, depletion and amortization; state income taxes, or federal income taxes.
We sell oil at posted field prices to one of several purchasers in each of our production areas. We sell all of our Montana production, which represents over 93% of our total oil sales, to CENEX, a regional refiner and marketer. Posted prices are generally competitive among crude oil purchasers. Our crude oil sales contracts may be terminated by either party upon 30 days’ notice.
Oilfield Services - Drilling Rig and Well-Servicing Equipment
In Montana, we perform, through our drilling subsidiary, FX Drilling Company, Inc., a variety of third-party contract oilfield services, including drilling, workovers, location work, cementing, and acidizing. We currently have a drilling rig capable of drilling to a vertical depth of 6,000 feet, a workover rig, two service rigs, cementing equipment, acidizing equipment, and other associated oilfield-servicing equipment.
The Republic of Poland
The Republic of Poland is located in central Europe, has a population of approximately 39 million people, and covers an area comparable to New Mexico. During 1989, Poland peacefully asserted its independence and became a parliamentary democracy. Since 1989, Poland has enacted comprehensive economic reform programs and stabilization measures that have enabled it to form a free-market economy and turn its economic ties from the east to the west, with most of its current international trade with the countries of the European Union and the United States. The economy has undergone extensive restructuring in the post-communist era. The Polish government credits foreign investment as a forceful growth factor in successfully creating a stable, free-market economy.
Since its transition to a free-market economy and a parliamentary democracy, Poland has experienced significant economic growth and political change. Poland has developed and is refining legal, tax, and regulatory systems characteristic of parliamentary democracies with interpretation and procedural safeguards. The Polish government has taken steps to harmonize Polish legislation with that of the European Union, which it joined in May of 2004.
Poland has created an attractive legal framework and fiscal regime for oil and gas exploration by actively encouraging investment by foreign companies. In July 1995, Poland’s Council of Ministers approved a program to restructure and privatize the Polish petroleum sector. So far under this plan, a refinery located in Plock has been privatized as a publicly held company with its stock trading on the London and Warsaw stock exchanges. In September of 2005, POGC sold 15% of its stock in an initial public offering on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, raising a total of 2.7 billion Polish zlotys (approximately US$900 million).
Prior to becoming a parliamentary democracy during 1989, the exploration and development of Poland’s oil and gas resources were hindered by a combination of foreign influence, a centrally controlled economy, limited financial resources, and a lack of modern exploration technology. As a result of these and other factors, Poland is currently a net energy importer. Oil is imported primarily from countries of the former Soviet Union and the Middle East, and gas is imported primarily from Russia.
During 2009, Poland was the only country in Europe to record positive gross domestic product, or GDP, growth. Current forecasts project that Poland will again lead all European countries in economic performance in 2010.
Legal Framework
General Usufruct and Concession Terms
All of our rights in Poland have been awarded to us or to POGC pursuant to the Geological and Mining Law, which specifies the process for obtaining domestic exploration and exploitation rights. Under the Geological and Mining Law, the concession authority enters into mining usufruct (lease) agreements that grant the holder the exclusive right to explore for oil and gas in a designated area or to exploit the designated oil and/or gas field for a specified period under prescribed terms and conditions. The holder of the mining usufruct covering exploration must also acquire an exploration concession by applying to the concession authority and providing the opportunity for comment by local governmental authorities. The usufruct agreements include provisions that give the usufruct holder a claim for an extension of the usufruct (and the underlying concession), subject to having fulfilled all obligations under the usufruct and/or concession agreements.
Under current law, the concession authority requires that concessions and related usufructs be owned by a single entity, without recognizing any minority record ownership such as would reflect our interest in those areas in which we previously have been granted a minority ownership. As such, our ownership is subject to continued compliance with applicable law, the usufruct and concession terms, and respecting the Fences area, the continuity of POGC as the record owner.
The concession authority has granted POGC oil and gas exploration rights on the Fences project area and has granted us oil and gas exploration rights on all other project areas in which we have an interest. The agreements divide these areas into blocks, each containing up to 300,000 acres.
If commercially viable gas or oil is discovered, the concession owner may produce it for two years based on the exploration concession, then apply for an exploitation concession, as provided by the usufructs, generally with a term of 25 to 30 years or as long as commercial production continues. Upon the grant of the exploitation concession, the concession owner may become obligated to pay a fee, to be negotiated, but expected to be less than 1% of the market value of the estimated recoverable reserves in place. The concession owner would also be required to pay a royalty on any production, the amount of which will be set by the Council of Ministers, within a range established by legislation for the mineral being extracted. The royalty rate for low-methane gas such as we produce is currently less than $0.04 per Mcf. Local governments will receive 60% of any royalties paid on production. The holder of the exploitation concession must also acquire rights to use the land from the surface owner and could be subject to significant delays in obtaining the consents of local authorities or satisfying other governmental requirements prior to obtaining an exploitation concession.
We believe all material concession terms have been satisfied to date.
Existing Project Areas
Fences Project Area
The Fences project area consists of four oil and gas exploration concessions controlled by POGC. Three producing fields (Radlin, Kleka, and Kaleje) lie within the concession boundaries, but are excluded from the Fences area in which we participate. The Fences concessions have expiration dates ranging from August 2012 to July 2015. The total joint remaining work commitment, which must be satisfied by us and POGC according to our respective working interests, includes: acquiring 50 kilometers of 2-D seismic data, acquiring 250 square kilometers of 3-D seismic data, and drilling five wells.
Wilga/Block 255 Project Area
The Wilga project area consists of a single oil and gas exploration concession held by us that expires in August 2012. The remaining period carries a work commitment of 80 kilometers of 2-D seismic data and optional drilling of up to three wells.
Warsaw South Project Area
This project area is adjacent to Block 255 and consists of four exploration concessions with expiration dates ranging from September 2012 to July 2013. The total work commitment for the four concessions is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 450 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data, 40 kilometers of which have already been completed; Phase III - three years: drilling four wells.
Block 287 Project Area
The Block 287 project area consists of a single oil and gas exploration concession held by us. Several producing fields also lie within this concession’s boundaries, but are excluded from the Block 287 project area. The concession expires in December 2012. Work commitment includes re-entering and producing the Grabowka gas field; reconstruction of one out of three wells was completed and production began in 2009.
Northwest Project Area
The Northwest project area consists of seven oil and gas exploration concessions granted at various times in 2006, 2007, and 2008, with expiration dates ranging from October 2012 through September 2014. The total work commitment for three of the blocks was outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - three years (extended from two): acquiring 800 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data; Phase III - two years (reduced from three): drilling three wells. The total work commitment for the remaining four blocks is outlined in two phases: Phase I - either two or three years: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data and acquiring 210 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase II - three years: drilling four wells. We are in the process of terminating two of the seven concessions and reducing the work commitment to a total of 700 kilometers in the remaining five blocks, 240 kilometers of which have already been completed. Part of the drilling commitment was satisfied during 2009 by drilling the Ostrowiecz well.
Kutno Project Area
The Kutno project area consists of three oil and gas exploration concessions. The first concession was granted in 2007 for a period of six years, and two new concessions were added in 2008 for a period of three years. The total work commitment for the initial concession is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one and one half years: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: drilling one well or acquiring 100 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase III - two and a half years: drilling one well. The work commitments for the 2008 concessions are outlined in two phases: Phase 1 - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 200 kilometers of 2-D seismic data.
Edge Project Area
The Edge project area consists of four oil and gas exploration concessions granted for the period of five years. The total work commitment is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 350 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase III - two years: drilling four wells. The concession expires in September 2013.
Block 246 Project Area
The Block 246 project area is adjacent to the Fences project area in the southwest and consists of a single concession granted for six years. The work commitment is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 120 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase III - three years: drilling one well. The concession expires in December 2014.
Block 229 Project Area
The Block 229 project area is adjacent to the Fences project area in the east and consists of two explorations concessions granted for the period of six years. The total work commitment is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 300 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase III - three years: drilling two wells. The concession expires in August 2014.
As of December 31, 2009, all required usufruct/concession payments had been made for each of the above project areas.
Government Regulation
Poland
Our activities in Poland are subject to political, economic, and other uncertainties, including the adoption of new laws, regulations, or administrative policies that may adversely affect us or the terms of our exploration or production rights; political instability and changes in government or public or administrative policies; export and transportation tariffs and local and national taxes; foreign exchange and currency restrictions and fluctuations; repatriation limitations; inflation; environmental regulations; and other matters. These operations in Poland are subject to the Geological and Mining Law dated as of September 4, 1994 (as amended), and the Protection and Management of the Environment Act dated as of January 31, 1980 (as amended), which are the current primary statutes governing environmental protection. Agreements with the government of Poland respecting our exploration and production areas create certain standards to be met regarding environmental protection. Participants in oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities generally are required to: (1) adhere to good international petroleum industry practices, including practices relating to the protection of the environment; and (2) prepare and submit geological work plans, with specific attention to environmental matters, to the appropriate agency of state geological administration for its approval prior to engaging in field operations such as seismic data acquisition, exploratory drilling, and field-wide development. Poland’s regulatory framework respecting environmental protection is not as fully developed and detailed as that which exists in the United States. We intend to conduct our operations in Poland in accordance with good international petroleum industry practices and, as they continue to develop, Polish requirements.
United States
State and Local Regulation of Drilling and Production
Our exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, and the plugging and abandoning of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells that may be drilled and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In this regard, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production.
Our oil production is affected to some degree by state regulations. States in which we operate have statutory provisions regulating the production and sale of oil and gas, including provisions regarding deliverability. Such statutes and related regulations are generally intended to prevent waste of oil and gas and to protect correlative rights to produce oil and gas between owners of a common reservoir. Certain state regulatory authorities also regulate the amount of oil and gas produced by assigning allowable rates of production to each well or proration unit.
Environmental Regulations
The federal government and various state and local governments have adopted laws and regulations regarding the control of contamination of the environment. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit by operators before drilling commences; restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. These laws and regulations may also increase the costs of drilling and operating wells. We may also be held liable for the costs of removal and damages arising out of a pollution incident to the extent set forth in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA ‘90. In addition, we may be subject to other civil claims arising out of any such incident. As with any owner of property, we are also subject to clean-up costs and liability for hazardous materials, asbestos, or any other toxic or hazardous substance that may exist on or under any of our properties. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws, rules, and regulations and that continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Furthermore, we do not believe that we are affected in a significantly different manner by these laws and regulations than our competitors in the oil and gas industry.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, also known as the “Superfund” law, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to be responsible for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. Furthermore, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment.
The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and regulations promulgated thereunder govern the generation, storage, transfer, and disposal of hazardous wastes. RCRA, however, excludes from the definition of hazardous wastes “drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, gas, or geothermal energy.” Because of this exclusion, many of our operations are exempt from RCRA regulation. Nevertheless, we must comply with RCRA regulations for any of our operations that do not fall within the RCRA exclusion.
The OPA ‘90 and related regulations impose a variety of regulations on responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills. OPA ‘90 establishes strict liability for owners of facilities that are the site of a release of oil into “waters of the United States.” While OPA ‘90 liability more typically applies to facilities near substantial bodies of water, at least one district court has held that OPA ‘90 liability can attach if the contamination could enter waters that may flow into navigable waters.
Stricter standards in environmental legislation may be imposed on the oil and gas industry in the future, such as proposals made in Congress and at the state level from time to time, that would reclassify certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes as “hazardous wastes” and make the reclassified wastes subject to more stringent and costly handling, disposal, and clean-up requirements. The impact of any such changes, however, would not likely be any more burdensome to us than to any other similarly situated company involved in oil and gas exploration and production.
Federal and Indian Leases
A substantial part of our producing properties in Montana consists of oil and gas leases issued by the Bureau of Land Management or by the Blackfeet Tribe under the supervision of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Our activities on these properties must comply with rules and orders that regulate aspects of the oil and gas industry, including drilling and operating on leased land and the calculation and payment of royalties to the federal government or the governing Indian nation. Our operations on Indian lands must also comply with applicable requirements of the governing body of the tribe involved including, in some instances, the employment of tribal members. We believe we are currently in full compliance with all material provisions of such regulations.
Safety and Health Regulations
We must also conduct our operations in accordance with various laws and regulations concerning occupational safety and health. Currently, we do not foresee expending material amounts to comply with these occupational safety and health laws and regulations. However, since such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we are unable to predict the future effect of these laws and regulations.
Title to Properties
We rely on sovereign ownership of exploration rights and mineral interests by the Polish government in connection with our activities in Poland and have not conducted and do not plan to conduct any independent title examination. We regularly consult with our Polish legal counsel when doing business in Poland.
Nearly all of our United States working interests are held under leases from third parties. We typically obtain a title opinion concerning such properties prior to the commencement of drilling operations. We have obtained such title opinions or other third-party review on all of our producing properties, and we believe that we have satisfactory title to all such properties sufficient to meet standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our United States properties are subject to typical burdens, including customary royalty interests and liens for current taxes, but we have concluded that such burdens do not materially interfere with the use of such properties. Further, we believe the economic effects of such burdens have been appropriately reflected in our acquisition cost of such properties and reserve estimates. Title investigation before the acquisition of undeveloped properties is less thorough than that conducted prior to drilling, as is standard practice in the industry.
Employees and Consultants
As of December 31, 2009, we had 49 employees, consisting of nine in Salt Lake City, Utah; 23 in Oilmont, Montana; one in Greenwich, Connecticut; two in Houston, Texas; and 14 in Poland. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining organization. We consider our relationship with our employees to be satisfactory. We also regularly engage technical consultants to provide specific geological, geophysical, and other professional services. Our executive officers and other management employees regularly travel to Poland to supervise activities conducted by our staff and others under contract on our behalf.
Offices and Facilities
Our corporate offices, located at 3006 Highland Drive, Salt Lake City, Utah, contain approximately 3,500 square feet and are rented at $3,400 per month under a month-to-month agreement. In Montana, we own a 16,160 square foot building located at the corner of Central and Main in Oilmont. We also have an office in Warsaw, Poland, located at Ul. Chalubinskiego 8, which we rent for approximately $7,700 per month.
Oil and Gas Terms
The following terms have the indicated meaning when used in this report:
“Bbl” means oilfield barrel.
“Bcf” means billion cubic feet of natural gas.
“Bcfe” means billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
“BTU” means British thermal unit.
“Ca2” refers to specific calcium-rich geological formations, typically a dolomitic reef.
“Deterministic” means a method of estimating reserves in which a simple value for each parameter of geoscience, engineering, or economic data in the reserves calculation is used in the reserves estimation.
“Development well” means a well drilled within the proved area of a gas or oil reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive.
“Exploratory well” means a well drilled to find and produce gas or oil in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of gas or oil in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
“Field” means an area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic conditions.
“Gross” acres and “gross” wells mean the total number of acres or wells, as the case may be, in which an interest is owned, either directly or through a subsidiary or other Polish enterprise in which we have an interest.
“Horizon” means an underground geological formation that is the portion of the larger formation that has sufficient porosity and permeability to constitute a reservoir.
“MBbls” means thousand oilfield barrels.
“Mcf” means thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
“Mcfe” means thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
“MMcf” means million cubic feet of natural gas.
“MMcfd” means million cubic feet of natural gas per day.
“Net” means, when referring to wells or acres, the fractional ownership working interests held by us, either directly or through a subsidiary or other Polish enterprise in which we have an interest, multiplied by the gross wells or acres.
“Probabilistic” means a method of estimating reserves using the full range of values that could reasonably occur for each unknown from the geoscience and engineering data to generate a full range of possible outcomes and their associated probabilities of occurrence.
“Proved reserves” means the estimated quantities of crude oil, gas and gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. “Proved reserves” may be developed or undeveloped.
“PV-10 Value” means the estimated future net revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves discounted to present value using an annual discount rate of 10.0%, the Standardized Measure of Future Net Cash Flows (“SMOG”). These amounts are calculated net of estimated production costs, future development costs, and future income taxes, using prices and costs in effect as of a certain date, without escalation and without giving effect to non-property-related expenses, such general and administrative costs, debt service, and depreciation, depletion, and amortization.
“Reservoir” means a porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and that is distinct and separate from other reservoirs.
“Tcf” means trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
“Usufruct” means the Polish equivalent of a U.S. oil and gas lease.
ITEM 3.