ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Proved Reserve Disclosures
Internal Controls over Reserve Estimates
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserve estimates require such estimates to comply with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with customary petroleum engineering practices. Responsibility for compliance in reserve bookings is delegated to our operations and financial staff. Clay Newton, our principal financial officer, reviews the independence and professional qualifications of the third-party engineering firms we engage. He also supervises the submission of technical and financial data to third-party engineering firms and reviews the prepared reports to verify that such data has been appropriately reflected in the reports. Mr. Newton has more than 25 years’ experience in senior financial positions in the oil and gas industry. He earned a BA in accounting at the University of Utah in 1981 and is a certified public accountant.
Estimates of our proved Polish reserves were calculated by RPS Energy, an independent engineering firm in the United Kingdom. Estimates of our proved domestic reserves were calculated by Hohn Engineering, an independent engineering firm in Billings, Montana. The technical personnel responsible for calculating the reserve estimates at both RPS Energy and Hohn Engineering meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. The qualifications of the individuals primarily responsible for the preparation of our reserve reports are included in their respective reports, which are included as exhibits to this filing. Both RPS Energy and Hohn Engineering are independent firms of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists; they do not own an interest in our properties and are not employed on a contingent-fee basis.
Proved Reserves
Proved reserves are estimated quantities of oil and gas calculated using deterministic methods that, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward and recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and governmental regulations, prior to the expiration of the contracts providing the right to operate, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. Proved developed reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods, or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well, and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserve estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Proved undeveloped reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to: (i) those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances; and (ii) other undrilled locations if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
We emphasize that the reserve volumes are estimates and by their nature are subject to revision. The estimates are made using geological and reservoir data, as well as production performance data. These estimates are reviewed annually and revised, either upward or downward, as warranted by additional performance data. These reserve revisions result primarily from increases or decreases in performance due to a variety of factors such as an addition to or a reduction in recoveries below or above previously established, lowest, known hydrocarbon levels, improvements or deteriorations in drainage from natural drive mechanisms, and increases or decreases to drainage areas. If the estimates of proved reserves were to decline, the rate at which we record depletion expense would increase.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
As of December 31, 2014, our proved undeveloped reserves totaled 14.1 Bcf of natural gas. All of our proved undeveloped reserves are located in Poland, and all are associated with wells that have been drilled, tested, and completed for production. These reserves are classified as proved undeveloped because relatively major expenditures are required for the completion of production facilities, which includes the construction of gathering lines to connect the wells to the existing pipeline in order to fully develop the reserves and commence production. We do not have any proved undeveloped reserves attributable to undrilled locations, so the development of such undeveloped reserves is not dependent on additional drilling. All development activities will be completed within five years of reserve bookings.
Changes in Proved Undeveloped Reserves
All reserves classified as proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2013, were associated with our Zaniemsyl-3 well, which remained in this category at year-end 2014. In addition, we assigned proved undeveloped reserves to our Karmin-1, Tuchola-3K, and Tuchola-4K wells at December 31, 2014.
Development Costs
Costs incurred relating to the development of proved undeveloped reserves were approximately $1.3 million in 2014, including the construction costs of production facilities at our Lisewo-2 well.
Estimated future development costs relating to the development of proved undeveloped reserves are projected to be approximately $12.4 million in 2015. The estimated development costs represent our share of the cost of the sidetrack project planned for our Zaniemsyl well and initial design and construction costs at our Karmin-1, Tuchola-3K, and Tuchola-4K wells.
For more information, see the following:
●
Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Proved Reserves, for a discussion of changes in proved reserves;
●
Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-Oil and Gas Reserves, for further discussion of our reserve estimation process; and
●
Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Supplemental Information, for additional information regarding estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves, including estimates of proved, proved developed, and proved undeveloped reserves, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and the changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Other Reserve Information
Since January 1, 2014, no crude oil or natural gas reserve information has been filed with, or included in any report to, any other federal authority or agency.
Reserve Volumes and Values
The following table sets forth our estimated proved developed and proved undeveloped reserve volumes as of December 31, 2014:
The following table sets forth the estimated SMOG Value of our proved reserves as of December 31, 2014:
Economic producibility of reserves and discounted cash flows are based on the use of unweighted, 12-month, first-day-of-the-month, historical average prices, adjusted for basis and quality differentials, rather than year-end prices. In Poland, average gas prices used in calculating reserve values also take into consideration exchange rates between the dollar and zloty in effect on the first day of each month. The average prices used to calculate year-end reserve values were $7.75 and $6.82 per thousand cubic feet, or Mcf, of gas and $74.94 and $78.18 per Bbl for 2014 and 2013, respectively.
Drilling Activities
The following table sets forth the exploratory wells that we drilled:
The productive exploratory wells drilled in 2014 were our Karmin-1 and Tuchola-4K wells. The exploratory dry holes in 2014 were our Baraniec-1 and Angowice-1 wells in Poland. The productive exploratory wells drilled in 2013 were our Lisewo-2 and Tuchola-3K wells. The Lisewo-2 well was drilled as a production acceleration well adjacent to the Lisewo-1 well, so no new reserves have been assigned to that well. The Tuchola-3K well was deemed commercial in 2014. The exploratory dry holes in 2013 were the Mieczewo-1K, Gorka-Duchowna-1, and Szymanowice-1 wells in Poland. The Szymanowice-1 well had gross proved reserves of 8.1 Bcf of natural gas at year-end 2013, but was plugged following an unsuccessful sidetrack operation. The Gorka-Duchowna-1 well was determined to be noncommercial during 2014. The productive exploratory well drilled in 2012 was our Komorze-3K well, which had gross proved reserves of 4.7 Bcf of natural gas at year-end 2012. The exploratory dry holes in 2012 include the Kutno-2 and Frankowo-1 wells in Poland and four Alberta Bakken wells drilled in Montana. The Frankowo-1 well was abandoned during 2014 as we relinquished our interest in Block 246. Of the remaining wells, three were drilled in 2011, but all were determined to be noncommercial during 2012. We did not drill any development wells in 2014, 2013, or 2012.
Wells and Acreage
As of December 31, 2014, our gross and net producing wells consisted of the following:
_______________
(1)
In addition to the wells producing at year-end 2014, we also had three additional wells in Poland awaiting the construction of production facilities.
The following table sets forth our gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage as of December 31, 2014. All of our gas production is in Poland, and all of our oil production is in the United States:
_______________
(1)
All gross and net undeveloped Polish acreage is rounded to the nearest 1,000 acres.
Polish Properties
Producing Properties
A summary of our average daily production, weighted average interest, and weighted average net revenue interest for our Poland producing properties during 2014 follows:
We sold our interest in Grabowka in early 2015.
Production, Transportation and Marketing
The following table sets forth, by well, our net annual oil and gas production and volume weighted average sales prices and production costs associated with our Polish production:
_______________
(1)
Production costs include lifting costs (electricity, fuel, water disposal, repairs, maintenance, transportation, and similar items) and contract operator fees. Production costs do not include such items as general and administrative costs; depreciation, depletion and amortization; or Polish income taxes.
(2)
Production costs at other wells include the ongoing costs of maintaining the production facilities at our Wilga well, which is not currently in production.
Poland has a network of gas pipelines and crude oil pipelines traversing the country serving major metropolitan, commercial, industrial, and gas production areas, including significant portions of our acreage. We are currently selling substantially all of our oil and gas production in Poland to PGNiG or one of its affiliates. We are dependent on PGNiG for the sale of gas in Poland, since there are few other competitive purchasers. Gas is sold pursuant to long-term sales contracts, typically for the life of each well, which obligate PGNiG to purchase all gas produced. Should we choose to export any gas or oil we produce, we will be required to obtain prior governmental approval.
Poland has a well-developed infrastructure of hard-surfaced roads and railways over which oil produced can be transported for sale. There are refineries in Gdansk and Plock in Poland and one in Germany near the western Polish border that we believe could process crude oil produced in Poland.
United States Properties
Producing Properties
In the United States, we currently produce oil in Montana and Nevada. All of our producing properties, except for the Rattlers Butte field (an exploratory discovery during 1997), were purchased during 1994. A summary of our average daily production and average working and net revenue interests, based on the number of producing wells, for our United States producing properties during 2014 follows:
In Montana, we operate the Southwest Cut Bank Sand Unit and Bears Den fields and have an interest in the Rattlers Butte field, which is operated by an industry partner. Production in the Southwest Cut Bank Sand Unit, producing since the 1940s from an average depth of approximately 2,900 feet, is from a waterflood program with 113 producing oil wells, 21 active injection wells, and one active water supply well. The Bears Den field, under waterflood since 1990, is producing oil from seven wells at a depth of approximately 2,430 feet, with one active water injection well. In the Rattlers Butte field, we own a 0.683% interest in one oil well producing at a depth of approximately 5,800 feet and one active water injection well.
In Nevada, we operate the Trap Springs and Munson Ranch fields and have an interest in the Bacon Flat field, which is operated by an industry partner. In the Trap Springs field, discovered in 1976, we produce oil from a depth of approximately 3,700 feet from one well. In the Munson Ranch field, discovered in 1988, we produce oil at an average depth of 3,800 feet from five wells. In the Bacon Flat field, discovered in 1981, we produce oil from one well at a depth of approximately 5,000 feet.
Production, Transportation, and Marketing
The following table sets forth our average net daily oil production, average sales prices, and production costs associated with our United States oil production:
_______________
(1)
Production costs include lifting costs (electricity, fuel, water disposal, repairs, maintenance, pumper, transportation, and similar items) and production taxes. Production costs do not include such items as general and administrative costs; depreciation, depletion and amortization; state income taxes, or federal income taxes.
We sell oil at posted field prices to one of several purchasers in each of our production areas. We sell all of our Montana production, which represents over 95% of our total oil sales, to Cenex, a regional refiner and marketer. Posted prices are generally competitive among crude oil purchasers. Our crude oil sales contracts may be terminated by either party upon 30 days’ notice.
Oilfield Services-Drilling Rig and Well-Servicing Equipment
In Montana, we perform, through our drilling subsidiary, FX Drilling Company, Inc., a variety of third-party contract oilfield services, including drilling, workovers, location work, cementing, and acidizing. We currently have a drilling rig capable of drilling to a vertical depth of 6,000 feet, a workover rig, two service rigs, cementing equipment, acidizing equipment, and other associated oilfield-servicing equipment.
The Republic of Poland
The Republic of Poland is located in north-central Europe, has a population of approximately 38.5 million people, and covers an area comparable to New Mexico. During 1989, Poland peacefully asserted its independence and became a parliamentary democracy. Since 1989, Poland has enacted comprehensive economic reforms and stabilization measures that have enabled it to form a free-market economy and turn its economic ties from the east to the west, with most of its current international trade with the countries of the European Union and the United States. The economy has undergone extensive restructuring in the post-communist era. The Polish government credits foreign investment as a forceful growth factor in successfully creating a stable, free-market economy.
Since its transition to a free-market economy and a parliamentary democracy, Poland has experienced significant economic growth and political change. Poland has developed and is refining legal, tax, and regulatory systems characteristic of parliamentary democracies with interpretation and procedural safeguards. The Polish government has taken steps to harmonize Polish legislation with that of the European Union, which it joined in May of 2004. These measures continue.
Poland has created an attractive legal framework and fiscal regime for oil and gas exploration by actively encouraging investment by foreign companies. In July 1995, Poland’s Council of Ministers approved a program to restructure and privatize the Polish petroleum sector. So far under this plan, a refinery located in Plock has been privatized as a publicly held company with its stock trading on the London and Warsaw stock exchanges. In September of 2005, PGNiG sold 15% of its stock in an initial public offering, raising a total of 2.7 billion Polish zlotys (approximately USD$900 million).
Prior to becoming a parliamentary democracy during 1989, the exploration and development of Poland’s oil and gas resources were hindered by a combination of foreign influence, a centrally controlled economy, limited financial resources, and a lack of modern exploration technology. As a result of these and other factors, Poland is currently a net energy importer. Oil is imported primarily from countries of the former Soviet Union and the Middle East, and gas is imported primarily from Russia.
Poland continues to enjoy the strongest economy in the European Union and was the only country in Europe to record positive GDP growth every year from 2008 through 2014, and economists are predicting positive growth during 2015. Poland’s economy remains one of the more attractive and safer debt markets in Europe.
Legal Framework
General Usufruct and Concession Terms
All of our rights in Poland have been awarded to us or to PGNiG pursuant to the Geological and Mining Law, or the former Geological and Mining Law of February 4, 1994 (as amended), which specifies the process for obtaining domestic exploration and exploitation rights. The Geological and Mining Law was substantially amended as of January 1, 2015. Prior to January 1, 2015, under the Geological and Mining Law, the concession authority entered into mining usufruct (lease) agreements that granted the holder the exclusive right to explore for oil and gas in a designated area or to exploit the designated oil and/or gas field for a specified period under prescribed terms and conditions. The holder of the mining usufruct covering exploration also had to acquire an exploration concession by applying to the concession authority and providing the opportunity for comment by local governmental authorities. The usufruct agreements included provisions that gave the usufruct holder a claim for an extension of the usufruct (and the underlying concession), subject to having fulfilled all obligations under the usufruct agreements and/or the related concession.
The provisions respecting mining usufruct terms and fees issued under the amended law continue to evolve and may be more stringent in more recent and future usufructs. Under newer usufructs, the Polish Ministry of the Environment has the authority, if we fail to comply with the terms and obligations indicated in the mining usufruct agreement, in particular with the obligation to pay fees due under the agreement, to terminate immediately a mining usufruct agreement, and may impose on us a contractual penalty in an amount equal to up to 200% of the annual fixed component of the fees. We anticipate that usufructs will continue to include higher fixed and variable payment requirements, and increased penalties or other sanctions, for nonpayment.
We can request changes to usufruct agreements and concessions that either modify the obligations or extend the terms of those agreements or concessions by up to three years. We can also apply, by December 31, 2016, for conversion of the existing concessions into concessions covering both exploration and production, for up to 30 years.
For concessions issued before January 1, 2015, the concession authority required that concessions be owned by a single entity, without recognizing any minority record ownership such as would reflect our interest in those areas in which we previously have been granted a minority ownership. As such, our ownership is subject to continued compliance with applicable law, the usufruct and concession terms, and respecting the Fences area, the continuity of PGNiG as the record owner. Under the new legislation, concessions (including concessions granted as a result of conversion of the concessions issued prior to January 1, 2015) can be held by more than one party; however, the ownership will be subject to continued eligibility of the operator.
The concession authority has granted oil and gas exploration rights on the Fences project area to PGNiG and has granted oil and gas exploration rights on all other project areas in which we have an interest to us. The agreements divide these areas into blocks, each containing up to 300,000 acres.
If commercially viable gas or oil is discovered, the concession owner may be able to produce gas or oil for test purposes for two years based on the exploration concession. During the two-year period, the concession owner typically applies for an exploitation concession, which generally will have a term of up to 30 years, with possible extensions for as long as commercial production continues. Upon the grant of the exploitation concession, the concession owner will be obligated to pay a fee, to be negotiated. The concession owner would also be required to pay a royalty on any production, the amount of which is set by the Geological and Mining Law and is updated annually for inflation. The royalty rate for low-methane gas such as we produce is currently set for 2015 at approximately $0.04 per Mcf. Local governments of various tiers will receive 90% of any royalties paid on production. The holder of the exploitation concession must also acquire rights to use the land from the surface owner and could be subject to significant delays in obtaining the consents of local authorities or satisfying other governmental requirements prior to obtaining an exploitation concession.
We believe all material terms of our concessions have been satisfied to date.
Currently gas produced by us in Poland is sold to PGNiG at prices negotiated by us with PGNiG but linked to tariff prices established by the Polish government. As part of its continuing effort to satisfy European Union requirements to move toward free-market energy prices, in September 2013 Poland adopted legislation requiring companies engaged in gas trading (i.e., excluding producers such as us) to sell a specified percentage, increasing from 30% in 2013 to 55% in 2015 and thereafter, of gas sold domestically on a commodity exchange. The only existing gas exchange was established by the Polish Power Exchange during 2013. The volumes traded on the commodity exchange are substantial, but heavily dominated by sales from PGNiG to its wholly owned retail trading subsidiary.
In view of the slow development of an open gas market, it is unclear whether a free-market trading price for gas will be established with sufficient industry acceptance and credibility to replace government-determined tariffs. Further, we cannot predict how free-market prices, if developed, will compare with established tariffs or whether our gas sales contracts with PGNiG will adopt free-market prices.
Existing Project Areas
Fences Project Area
The Fences project area consists of four oil and gas exploration concessions operated by PGNiG. Three producing fields (Radlin, Kleka, and Kaleje) lie within the concession boundaries, but are excluded from the Fences area in which we participate. The Fences concessions (853,000 gross and 407,000 net acres) have expiration dates ranging from July 2015 to July 2022. The total joint remaining work commitment, which must be satisfied by us and PGNiG according to our respective interests, includes acquiring 250 kilometers of 2-D seismic data, acquiring 110 square kilometers of 3-D seismic data, and drilling seven wells.
Edge Project Area
The Edge project area (726,000 gross and net acres) consists of four oil and gas exploration concessions granted in 2008. In September 2013 two of them were extended for five years and the remaining two for three years. The total obligatory work commitment, to be completed in 2016-18, includes acquiring 500 square kilometers of 3-D seismic data and drilling eight wells.
Warsaw South/Wilga Project Area
The Warsaw South/Wilga project area (236,000 gross and 121,000 net acres) consists of a single oil and gas exploration concession covering Block 255 held by us, expiring in March 2019. The obligatory work commitment includes acquiring 180 square kilometers of 3-D seismic data and drilling two wells.
As of December 31, 2014, all required usufruct/concession payments had been made for each of the above existing project areas.
Government Regulation
Poland
Our activities in Poland are subject to political, economic, and other uncertainties, including the adoption of new laws, regulations, or administrative policies that may adversely affect us or the terms of our exploration or production rights; political instability and changes in government or public or administrative policies; export and transportation tariffs and local and national taxes; foreign exchange and currency restrictions and fluctuations; repatriation limitations; inflation; environmental regulations; and other matters. These operations in Poland are subject to the Geological and Mining Law dated as of June 9, 2011 (as amended), and the Environment Protection Law dated as of April 27, 2001 (as amended), which are the current primary statutes governing environmental protection. Agreements with the government of Poland respecting our exploration and production areas create certain standards to be met regarding environmental protection. Participants in oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities generally are required to: (1) adhere to good international petroleum industry practices, including practices relating to the protection of the environment; (2) prepare and submit geological work plans, with specific attention to environmental matters, to the appropriate agency of state geological administration for its approval prior to engaging in field operations such as seismic data acquisition and exploratory drilling; (3) prepare and submit field development plans prior to engaging in field-wide development; and (4) obtain decisions on environmental conditions from the relevant environmental authority before entering into the production phase. Poland’s regulatory framework respecting environmental protection generally follows directives and regulations of the European Union. We intend to conduct our operations in Poland in accordance with good international petroleum industry practices and, as they continue to develop, Polish requirements.
Significant amendments to the Geological and Mining Law and to tax regulations were enacted in 2014 and enter into effect in 2015, 2016, and 2020 as a result of political and administrative interest in reviewing and potentially altering the current natural resources regulatory scheme that has been in place for some years. New policies may result in a more openly competitive process for obtaining exploration concessions and retaining rights to discovered hydrocarbons, increased production taxes, requirements for governmental concessions for transporting and marketing gas, more market-based hydrocarbon pricing, and the release of exploration data and similar matters, all or any one of which could increase our costs and reduce our expansion opportunities.
Recent Changes to the Polish Hydrocarbon Industry Licensing and Tax Regimes
Principal 2014 amendments to the Geological and Mining Law include the replacement of the current three types of concessions with one concession for exploration and production; new requirements for prequalification for applicants for concessions; and increased royalty revenues to local authorities from oil and gas production. Administrative changes are aimed at improving concession administration.
In addition to the increased royalties, new legislation has been enacted regarding two new taxes on hydrocarbons: one based on positive cumulative cash flows from hydrocarbon activity and the other based on production volumes. The new legislation is meant to increase governmental revenue from the oil and gas industry, with the stated intention for the total royalty and tax burden of an energy company to approach 40% of taxable income, which is approximately double that of the current fiscal regime. The new laws will become effective January 1, 2016, respecting the royalty regime, and January 1, 2020, respecting new taxes. The new royalty and tax structure would be applicable to all production, without regard to when the well was drilled or the relevant concession granted.
While these new regulations are implemented, we may encounter delays or policy changes for the approval by the Minister of Environment of changes to provisions of our concessions, such as our requests for extensions of work commitments or other modifications.
United States
State and Local Regulation of Drilling and Production
Our U.S. exploration and production operations are subject to various types of federal, state, and local regulation. This regulation includes requiring permits for drilling wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells and regulating the location of wells, restricting the method of drilling and casing wells, regulating hydraulic fracturing, controlling water injections, setting forth the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, and the plugging and abandoning of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the density of wells that may be drilled, and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In this regard, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production.
Our oil production is affected to some degree by state regulations. States in which we operate have statutory provisions regulating the production and sale of oil and gas, including provisions regarding deliverability. These statutes and related regulations are generally intended to prevent waste of oil and gas and to protect correlative rights to produce oil and gas between owners of a common reservoir. Certain state regulatory authorities also regulate the amount of oil and gas produced by assigning allowable rates of production to each well or proration unit.
Environmental Regulations
Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to health and safety or the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations require the acquisition of a permit by operators before drilling commences; mandate the use of specific procedures and facilities in handling specific substances and restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. These laws and regulations increase the costs of drilling and operating wells and storing and transporting oil.
Numerous governmental agencies, such as the EPA, issue regulations to implement and enforce these laws, which often require difficult and costly compliance measures. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of substantial administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, as well as the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting our activities. In addition, some laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, which could result in liability for environmental damages and cleanup costs without regard to negligence or fault on our part.
Environmental regulatory programs typically regulate the permitting, construction, and operations of a facility. Many factors, including public perception, can materially impact the ability to secure an environmental construction or operation permit. Once operational, enforcement measures can include significant civil penalties for regulatory violations regardless of intent. Under appropriate circumstances, an administrative agency can issue a cease-and-desist order to terminate operations. New programs and changes in existing programs are routinely proposed, considered, and in some cases adopted, which both complicate compliance and potentially make it more expensive. Environmental laws and regulations have been subject to frequent changes over the years, and the imposition of more stringent requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, also known as the “Superfund” law, and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to be responsible for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed, or arranged for the disposal, of the hazardous substances. Under CERCLA, these persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, damages to natural resources, and the costs of certain health studies. In addition, companies that incur liability frequently confront additional claims because it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment.
The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and regulations promulgated thereunder govern the generation, storage, transfer, and disposal of hazardous wastes. RCRA, however, excludes from the definition of hazardous wastes “drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, gas, or geothermal energy.” Because of this exclusion, many of our operations are exempt from RCRA regulation. However, these wastes may be regulated by the EPA or state agencies as nonhazardous wastes as long as these wastes are not commingled with regulated hazardous wastes. Moreover, in the ordinary course of our operations, wastes generated in connection with our exploration and production activities may be regulated as hazardous waste under RCRA or hazardous substances under CERCLA.
Our operations are also subject to the federal Clean Water Act and analogous state laws. The Clean Water Act regulates discharges of wastewater, oil, and other pollutants to surface water bodies, such as lakes, rivers, wetlands, and streams. Failure to obtain permits for these discharges could result in civil and criminal penalties, orders to cease such discharges, and payment of costs to remediate and natural resources damages. These laws also require the preparation and implementation of spill prevention, control, and countermeasure plans in connection with on-site storage of significant quantities of oil. In June 2011, an oil leak occurred at our Southwest Cut Bank Sand Unit in Montana. We spent approximately $321,000 in 2011 in completing cleanup, mitigation, and restoration pursuant to an approved plan in cooperation with the Blackfeet Tribe and the EPA. Although we believe that we have satisfactorily completed the cleanup according to the specifications provided by the Blackfeet Tribe and the EPA, we cannot assure that the leak will not result in additional costs, sanctions, or penalties arising from civil or criminal actions and attendant negative publicity.
The federal Safe Drinking Water Act (SWDA), the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program promulgated under the SWDA, and state programs regulate the drilling and operation of salt water disposal wells. The EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others administration is delegated to the state. Permits must be obtained before drilling salt water disposal wells, and casing integrity monitoring must be conducted periodically to ensure the casing is not leaking saltwater to groundwater. Contamination of groundwater by oil and natural gas drilling, production, and related operations may result in fines, penalties, and remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SWDA and state laws. In addition, third-party claims may be filed by landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages, and bodily injury.
The federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws regulate air emissions of various pollutants through permitting programs and other requirements. In addition, the EPA has developed and continues to develop stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil, and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations. Our operations, or the operations of service companies engaged by us, in certain circumstances and locations, may be subject to permits and restrictions under these statutes for emissions of air pollutants. In addition, in December 2012, the EPA announced its study on the environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing and reported the methodologies and focus of this ongoing study, with a draft initial report yet to be released.
Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA. NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of the Interior, to evaluate major agency actions that have the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of these evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. All of our current and proposed exploration and production activities on federal lands require governmental permits that are subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects.
Various state and federal statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitat, migratory birds, wetlands, and natural resources. These statutes include the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the Clean Water Act, and CERCLA. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development. Where the taking of, harm, or damage to a species, wetlands, habitat, or natural resources occurs or may occur, governmental entities or, at times, private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration activities or seek damages, and in some cases criminal penalties, for harm to a species, wetlands, habitat, or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction, or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances, or other regulated materials.
We are subject to federal and state hazard communications and community right-to-know statutes and regulations. These regulations govern recordkeeping and reporting of the use and release of hazardous substances, including the federal Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act.
Stricter standards in environmental legislation may be imposed on the oil and gas industry in the future, such as proposals made in Congress and at the state level from time to time, that would reclassify certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes as “hazardous wastes” and make the reclassified wastes subject to more stringent and costly handling, disposal, and cleanup requirements. The impact of any such changes, however, would not likely be any more burdensome to us than to any other similarly situated company involved in oil and gas exploration and production.
We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with these laws, rules, and regulations and that continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Furthermore, we do not believe that we are affected in a significantly different manner by these laws and regulations than our competitors in the oil and gas industry.
Federal and Indian Leases
A substantial part of our producing properties in Montana consist of oil and gas leases issued by the Bureau of Land Management or the Blackfeet Tribe under the supervision of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Our activities on these properties must comply with rules and orders that regulate aspects of the oil and gas industry, including drilling and operating on leased land and the calculation and payment of royalties to the federal government or the governing Indian nation. Our operations on Indian lands must also comply with applicable requirements of the governing body of the tribe involved including, in some instances, the employment of tribal members and the use of tribal contractors. We believe we are currently in full compliance with all material provisions of such regulations.
Safety and Health Regulations
In all of our field activities, particularly our oilfield services segment, we are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, commonly referred to as OSHA, and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities, and the public. Currently, we do not foresee expending material amounts to comply with these occupational safety and health laws and regulations. However, since these laws and regulations are frequently changed, we are unable to predict the future effect of these laws and regulations.
Resource Extraction Reporting
Under 2012 regulations adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, we would have been required to begin reporting annually to the Securities and Exchange Commission the payments we make to governmental entities to further commercial development of oil and gas in 2014. During 2013, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia vacated the SEC resource extraction disclosure rules.
2011 Montana Oil Leak
In June 2011, an oil leak occurred at our Southwest Cut Bank Sand Unit in Montana. We spent approximately $321,000 in completing cleanup, mitigation, and restoration pursuant to an approved plan in cooperation with the Blackfeet Tribe and the EPA. Both the Blackfeet Tribe and the EPA advised us in writing that our cleanup and mitigation efforts were satisfactory. However, we are advised that a federal investigation into the 2011 Southwest Cut Bank Sand Unit incident continues. We are cooperating with the investigation and have asserted that no federal law was violated by us or our employees and that no one should be sanctioned civilly or criminally. We have engaged independent counsel to represent separately current and former employees in connection with this matter. We cannot predict whether authorities may initiate criminal or other proceedings against us or our personnel, exposing us or our employees to penalties.
Hydraulic Fracturing
We have no current plans for future hydraulic fracturing in either Poland or the United States. Were we to engage in hydraulic fracturing we expect that PGNiG or we, as the operator of the particular project, would use industry-standard, long-established third-party service providers with specialized experience and equipment in hydraulic fracturing. In many instances, these service providers would be PGNiG subsidiaries. Prior to initiating a horizontal lateral to an existing well or drilling a new well that might result in a horizontal extension, we would include in the planning and budgetary process all costs associated with the fracture treatment, including applicable regulatory compliance, such as monitoring operations, evaluating the environmental impact of fluid additives, minimizing fluid quantities and fracturing fluid disposal. We expect to follow industry standard procedures and meet increasing stringent regulatory standards, which continue to evolve. Regulatory approval of proposed fracturing operations may require us to complete an environmental impact statement. The costs of a well vary based on the depth to which it would be drilled, its horizontal length, and the completion technique to be used, which would include the added expenditure for the fracture treatment, as well as anticipated environmental and safety considerations.
Applicable laws typically impose responsibility on owners and operators for any costs resulting from underground migration of fracture fluids, and we are not fully insured against this risk. The occurrence of a significant event resulting from the underground migration of fracture fluids or surface spillage, mishandling, or leakage of fracture fluids could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To date, there have been no such incidents, and the members of our management team have not encountered such an incident in their long-term experience in this industry.
For information regarding existing and proposed governmental regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing and related environmental matters, please read “Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-Polish legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult or costly for us to explore and produce from our properties.”
Title to Properties
We rely on sovereign ownership of exploration rights and mineral interests by the Polish government in connection with our activities in Poland and have not conducted and do not plan to conduct any independent title examination. We regularly consult with our Polish legal counsel when doing business in Poland.
Nearly all of our U.S. interests are held under leases from third parties. We typically obtain a title opinion concerning these properties prior to the commencement of drilling operations. We have obtained title opinions or other third-party review on all of our producing properties, and we believe that we have satisfactory title to all such properties sufficient to meet standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our U.S. properties are subject to typical burdens, including customary royalty interests and liens for current taxes, but we have concluded that these burdens do not materially interfere with our activities on these properties. Further, we believe the economic effects of these burdens have been appropriately reflected in our carrying cost of the properties and reserve estimates. Title investigation before the acquisition of undeveloped properties is less thorough than that conducted prior to drilling, as is standard practice in the industry.
Oil and Gas Terms
The following terms have the indicated meaning when used in this report, in our public releases, or investor presentations:
“Bbl” means oilfield barrel.
“Bcf” means billion cubic feet of natural gas.
“Bcfe” means billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
“BTU” means British thermal unit.
“Ca2” refers to a specific calcium-rich geological formation, typically a dolomitic reef.
“Deterministic” means a method of estimating reserves in which a simple value for each parameter of geoscience, engineering, or economic data in the reserve calculation is used in the reserve estimation.
“Development well” means a well drilled within the proved area of a gas or oil reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive.
“Exploratory well” means a well drilled to find and produce gas or oil in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of gas or oil in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
“Field” means an area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic conditions.
“Fracturing” means injecting fluids or slurry under sufficient pressure and rate to fracture the formation, leaving proppants that keep the fractures open to serve as a pathway for gas or oil to flow to the well bore.
“Gross acres” and “gross wells” mean the total number of acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is owned, either directly or through a subsidiary or other enterprise in which we have an interest.
“Horizon” means an underground geological formation that is the portion of the larger formation that has sufficient porosity and permeability to constitute a reservoir.
“MBbls” means thousand oilfield barrels.
“Mcf” means thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
“Mcfe” means thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
“MMcf” means million cubic feet of natural gas.
“MMcfd” means million cubic feet of natural gas per day.
“MMcfe” means million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
“MMcfed” means million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas per day.
“Net” means, when referring to wells or acres, the fractional ownership working interests held by us, either directly or through a subsidiary or other Polish enterprise in which we have an interest, multiplied by the gross wells or acres.
“PLN” means the Polish zloty.
“Proved reserves” means the estimated quantities of crude oil, gas, and gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. “Proved reserves” may be developed or undeveloped.
“PV-10 Value” means the estimated future net revenue to be generated from the production of proved or probable reserves discounted to present value using an annual discount rate of 10%, before taxes. These amounts are calculated net of estimated production costs and future development costs, using prices and costs determined using guidelines established by the Securities and Exchange Commission, without escalation and without giving effect to non-property-related expenses, general and administrative costs, debt service, and depreciation, depletion, and amortization.
“Reservoir” means a porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and that is distinct and separate from other reservoirs.
“SMOG (Standard Measure of Oil and Gas) Value” means the estimated future net revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves discounted to present value using an annual discount rate of 10%. These amounts are calculated net of estimated production costs, future development costs, and future income taxes, using prices and costs determined using guidelines established by the Securities and Exchange Commission, without escalation and without giving effect to non-property-related expenses, general and administrative costs, debt service, and depreciation, depletion, and amortization.
“USD” means the U.S. dollar.
“Usufruct” means the Polish equivalent of a U.S. oil and gas lease.
ITEM 3.