ITEM 2. PROPERTIES - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Republic of Poland
The Republic of Poland is located in central Europe, has a population of approximately 39 million people, and covers an area comparable in size to New Mexico. During 1989, Poland peacefully asserted its independence and became a parliamentary democracy. Since 1989, Poland has enacted comprehensive economic reform programs and stabilization measures that have enabled it to form a free-market economy and turn its economic ties from the east to the west, with most of its current international trade with the countries of the European Union and the United States. The economy has undergone extensive restructuring in the post-communist era. The Polish government credits foreign investment as a forceful growth factor in successfully creating a stable free-market economy.
Since its transition to a market economy and a parliamentary democracy, Poland has experienced significant economic growth and political change. Poland has developed and is refining legal, tax and regulatory systems characteristic of parliamentary democracies with interpretation and procedural safeguards. The Polish government has taken steps to harmonize Polish legislation with that of the European Union, which it joined in May of 2004.
Poland has created an attractive legal framework and fiscal regime for oil and gas exploration by actively encouraging investment by foreign companies to offset its lack of capital to further explore its oil and gas resources. In July 1995, Poland's Council of Ministers approved a program to restructure and privatize the Polish petroleum sector. So far under this plan, a refinery located in Plock has been privatized as a publicly-held company with its stock trading on the London and Warsaw stock exchanges. In September of 2005, POGC sold 15% of its stock in an initial public offering on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, raising a total of 2.7 billion Polish zlotys (approximately US $900 million). POGC also issued 20% of its stock to current and former employees. We expect the additional funding will allow POGC to become more aggressive with the exploration spending as it pursues its stated goal of increasing gas production in-country by 60% in the next three years.
Prior to becoming a parliamentary democracy during 1989, the exploration and development of Poland's oil and gas resources were hindered by a combination of foreign influence, a centrally-controlled economy, limited financial resources, and a lack of modern exploration technology. As a result, Poland is currently a net energy importer. Oil is imported primarily from countries of the former Soviet Union and the Middle East, and gas is imported primarily from Russia.
Polish Properties
Legal Framework
General Usufruct and Concession Terms
All of our rights in Poland have been awarded to us or to POGC pursuant to the Geological and Mining Law, which specifies the process for obtaining domestic exploration and exploitation rights. Under the Geological and Mining Law, the concession authority enters into mining usufruct (lease) agreements that grant the holder the exclusive right to explore for oil and gas in a designated area or to exploit the designated oil and/or gas field for a specified period under prescribed terms and conditions. The holder of the mining usufruct covering exploration must also acquire an exploration concession by applying to the concession authority and providing the opportunity for comment by local governmental authorities.
The concession authority has granted us oil and gas exploration rights on the Fences III and Wilga project areas, and has granted POGC oil and gas exploration rights on the Fences I and II project areas. The agreements divide these areas into blocks, generally containing approximately 250,000 acres each. Concessions have been acquired for exploration in all areas that lie within existing usufructs. The exploration period begins after the date of the last concession signed under each respective usufruct. We believe all material concession terms have been satisfied to date.
If commercially viable oil or gas is discovered, the concession owner, during the first two years of production, then applies for an exploitation concession, as provided by the usufructs, generally with a term of 25 to 30 years or as long as commercial production continues. Upon the grant of the exploitation concession, the concession owner may become obligated to pay a fee, to be negotiated, but expected to be less than 1% of the market value of the estimated recoverable reserves in place. The concession owner would also be required to pay a royalty on any production, the amount of which will be set by the Council of Ministers, within a range established by legislation for the mineral being extracted. The royalty rate for high-methane gas is currently less than $0.05 per Mcf. This rate could be increased or decreased by the Council of Ministers to a rate between $0.02 and $0.10 per Mcf (the current statutory minimum and maximum royalty rates). Local governments will receive 60% of any royalties paid on production. The holder of the exploitation concession must also acquire rights to use the land from the surface owner and could be subject to significant delays in obtaining the consents of local authorities or satisfying other governmental requirements prior to obtaining an exploitation concession.
Fences I Project Area
The Fences I project area consists of a single oil and gas exploration concession controlled by POGC. Three producing fields (Radlin, Kleka and Kaleje) lie within the concession boundary, but are excluded from the Fences I concession. The concession is for a period of six years ending in September 2007 and carried certain work requirements, all of which have been completed except for the acquisition of 70 kilometers of 3-D seismic data.
Fences II Project Area
The Fences II project area consists of four oil and gas exploration concessions controlled by POGC. The concessions have expiration dates ranging from July 2006 to July 2008. Remaining work commitments in the aggregate include acquiring 30 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data and drilling one well. POGC is currently working on an extension for the concessions that expire in 2006.
Fences III Project Area
The Fences III project area consists of a single oil and gas exploration concession held by us. Several producing fields lie within the concession boundaries, but are excluded from the Fences III project area. The concession is for a period of six years ending in December 2009. Remaining work commitments include acquiring 100 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data or drilling one well, which has been satisfied by the drilling of the Drozdowice-1 well, and analysis and interpretation of existing well data. Beginning in the fourth year, there is a drilling requirement of a second well.
Wilga/Block 255 Project Area
The Wilga project area consists of a single oil and gas exploration concession that expires in July 2006. We are in the process of submitting a routine extension application. All work commitments have been completed.
As of December 31, 2005, all required usufruct/concession payments had been made for each of the above project areas.
Production, Transportation and Marketing
Poland has a network of gas pipelines and crude oil pipelines traversing the country serving major metropolitan, commercial, industrial and gas production areas, including significant portions of our acreage. Poland has a well-developed infrastructure of hard-surfaced roads and railways over which we believe oil produced could be transported for sale. There are refineries in Gdansk and Plock in Poland and one in Germany near the western Polish border that we believe could process crude oil produced in Poland. Should we choose to export any oil or gas we produce, we will be required to obtain prior governmental approval.
During early 2001, we and POGC constructed a pipeline from the Kleka 11 well approximately four kilometers to POGC's Radlin field gas processing facility and began selling gas produced to POGC at a price of $2.02 per MMBTU under a five-year contract that may be terminated by us with a 90-day written notice. As part of our restructured agreement with POGC, we agreed in 2003 to assign our interest in the Kleka 11 well, including amounts representing unpaid gas sales, to POGC to reduce our outstanding obligation to POGC; in early 2004, we and POGC agreed that we would not convey the Kleka 11 well, subject to completing final documentation. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation: Introduction--Fences I Commitment and Settlement, for further information concerning the Kleka 11 well.
United States Properties
Producing Properties
In the United States, we currently produce oil in Montana and Nevada. All of our producing properties, except for the Rattlers Butte field (an exploratory discovery during 1997), were purchased during 1994. A summary of our average daily production, average working interest and net revenue interest for our United States producing properties during 2005 follows:
In Montana, we operate the Cut Bank and Bears Den fields and have an interest in the Rattlers Butte field, which is operated by an industry partner. Production in the Cut Bank field commenced with the discovery of oil in the 1940s at an average depth of approximately 2,900 feet. The Southwest Cut Bank Sand Unit, which is the core of our interest in the field, was originally formed by Phillips Petroleum Company in 1963. An initial pilot waterflood program was started in 1964 by Phillips and eventually encompassed the entire unit with producing wells on 40- and 80-acre spacing. In the Cut Bank field, we own an average working interest of 99.6% in 99 producing oil wells, 25 active injection wells and one active water supply well. The Bears Den field was discovered in 1929 and has been under waterflood since 1990. In the Bears Den field, we own a 98% working interest in three active water injection wells and five producing oil wells, which produce oil at a depth of approximately 2,430 feet. The Rattlers Butte field was discovered during 1997. In the Rattlers Butte field, we own a 6.3% working interest in two oil wells producing at a depth of approximately 5,800 feet and one active water injection well.
In Nevada, we operate the Trap Springs and Munson Ranch fields and have an interest in the Bacon Flat field, which is operated by an industry partner. The Trap Springs field was discovered in 1976. In the Trap Springs field, we produce oil from a depth of approximately 3,700 feet from one well, with a working interest of 21.6%. The Munson Ranch field was discovered in 1988. In the Munson Ranch field, we produce oil at an average depth of 3,800 feet from five wells, with an average working interest of 36%. The Bacon Flat field was discovered in 1981. In the Bacon Flat field, we produce oil from one well at a depth of approximately 5,000 feet, with a 16.9% working interest.
Production, Transportation and Marketing
The following table sets forth our average net daily oil production, average sales price and average production costs associated with our United States oil production during 2005, 2004 and 2003:
(1) Production costs include lifting costs (electricity, fuel, water, disposal, repairs, maintenance, pumper, transportation and similar items) and production taxes. Production costs do not include such items as general and administrative costs; depreciation, depletion and amortization; state income taxes or federal income taxes.
We sell oil at posted field prices to one of several purchasers in each of our production areas. In July 2003, we began selling the majority of our Montana production, which represents over 84% of our total oil sales, to CENEX, a regional refiner and marketer. Posted prices are generally competitive among crude oil purchasers. Our crude oil sales contracts may be terminated by either party upon 30 days' notice.
Oilfield Services - Drilling Rig and Well-Servicing Equipment
In Montana, we perform, through our drilling subsidiary, FX Drilling Company, Inc., a variety of third-party contract oilfield services, including drilling, workovers, location work, cementing and acidizing. We currently have a drilling rig capable of drilling to a vertical depth of 6,000 feet, a workover rig, two service rigs, cementing equipment, acidizing equipment, and other associated oilfield servicing equipment.
Proved Reserves
Proved reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reserves under existing economic and operating conditions. Our proved oil and gas reserve quantities and values are based on estimates prepared by independent reserve engineers in accordance with guidelines established by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Operating costs, production taxes and development costs were deducted in determining the quantity and value information. Such costs were estimated based on current costs and were not adjusted to anticipate increases due to inflation or other factors. No price escalations were assumed and no amounts were deducted for general overhead, depreciation, depletion and amortization, interest expense and income taxes. The proved reserve quantity and value information is based on the weighted average price on December 31, 2005, of $51.11 per Bbl for oil in the United States and $50.00 per Bbl of oil and $2.97 per Mcf of gas in Poland. The determination of oil and gas reserves is based on estimates and is highly complex and interpretive, as there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves, projecting future rates of production and the timing and amount of development expenditures. The estimated present value, discounted at 10% per annum, of the future net cash flows, or PV-10 Value, was determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 69, "Disclosure About Oil and Gas Activities," and SEC guidelines. Our proved reserve estimates are subject to continuing revisions as additional information becomes available or assumptions change.
Estimates of our proved United States oil reserves were prepared by Larry Krause Consulting, an independent engineering firm in Billings, Montana. Estimates of our proved Polish gas reserves were prepared by RPS Energy, an independent engineering firm in the United Kingdom. No estimates of our proved reserves have been filed with or included in any report to any other federal agency during 2005.
The following summary of proved reserve information as of December 31, 2005, represents discounted, after tax estimates net to us only, and should not be construed as exact:
Gas reserves in Poland include 1.0 Bcf of gas attributable to the Kleka 11 well, which we agreed in 2003 to convey to POGC; in early 2004, we and POGC agreed that we would not convey the Kleka 11 well, subject to completing final documentation. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation: Introduction--Fences I Commitment and Settlement, for further information concerning the Kleka 11 well.
Drilling Activities
The following table sets forth the exploratory wells that we drilled during the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003:
Wells and Acreage
As of December 31, 2005, our producing gross and net well count consisted of the following:
Number of Wells ------------------------ Gross Net ----------- ----------- Well count: United States(1)............................ 118.0 112.0 Poland(2)................................... 1.0 0.5 ----------- ----------- Total..................................... 119.0 112.5 =========== =========== - ------------------ (1) All of our United States wells are producing oil wells. We have no gas production in the United States. (2) Consists of Kleka 11 well, which we agreed in 2003 to convey to POGC; in early 2004, we and POGC agreed that we would not convey the Kleka 11 well, subject to completing final documentation. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation: Introduction-- Fences I Commitment and Settlement, for further information concerning the Kleka 11 well.
The following table sets forth our gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage as of December 31, 2005:
- ------------------- (1) All gross undeveloped Polish acreage is rounded to the nearest 50,000 acres and net undeveloped Polish acreage is rounded to the nearest 1,000 acres.
Government Regulation
Poland
Our activities in Poland are subject to political, economic and other uncertainties, including the adoption of new laws, regulations or administrative policies that may adversely affect us or the terms of our exploration or production rights; political instability and changes in government or public or administrative policies; export and transportation tariffs and local and national taxes; foreign exchange and currency restrictions and fluctuations; repatriation limitations; inflation; environmental regulations; and other matters. These operations in Poland are subject to the Geological and Mining Law dated as of September 4, 1994, and the Protection and Management of the Environment Act dated as of January 31, 1980, which are the current primary statutes governing environmental protection. Agreements with the government of Poland respecting our areas create certain standards to be met regarding environmental protection. Participants in oil and gas exploration, development and production activities generally are required to (1) adhere to good international petroleum industry practices, including practices relating to the protection of the environment; and (2) prepare and submit geological work plans, with specific attention to environmental matters, to the appropriate agency of state geological administration for its approval prior to engaging in field operations such as seismic data acquisition, exploratory drilling and field-wide development. Poland's regulatory framework respecting environmental protection is not as fully developed and detailed as that which exists in the United States. We intend to conduct our operations in Poland in accordance with good international petroleum industry practices and, as they develop, Polish requirements.
We expect Poland will continue to pass further legislation aimed at harmonizing Polish environmental law with that of the European Union. The European Union Treaty of Accession will require divestment by the Polish government of certain portions of its oil and gas business. Changes in the industry ownership may affect the business climate where we operate.
United States
State and Local Regulation of Drilling and Production
Our exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, and the plugging and abandoning of wells. Our
operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells that may be drilled and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In this regard, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production.
Our oil production is affected to some degree by state regulations. States in which we operate have statutory provisions regulating the production and sale of oil and gas, including provisions regarding deliverability. Such statutes and related regulations are generally intended to prevent waste of oil and gas and to protect correlative rights to produce oil and gas between owners of a common reservoir. Certain state regulatory authorities also regulate the amount of oil and gas produced by assigning allowable rates of production to each well or proration unit.
Environmental Regulations
The federal government and various state and local governments have adopted laws and regulations regarding the control of contamination of the environment. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit by operators before drilling commences, restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas, and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. These laws and regulations may also increase the costs of drilling and operation of wells. We may also be held liable for the costs of removal and damages arising out of a pollution incident to the extent set forth in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA `90. In addition, we may be subject to other civil claims arising out of any such incident. As with any owner of property, we are also subject to clean-up costs and liability for hazardous materials, asbestos or any other toxic or hazardous substance that may exist on or under any of our properties. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws, rules and regulations and that continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Furthermore, we do not believe that we are affected in a significantly different manner by these laws and regulations than our competitors in the oil and gas industry.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to be responsible for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. Furthermore, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment.
The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and regulations promulgated thereunder govern the generation, storage, transfer and disposal of hazardous wastes. RCRA, however, excludes from the definition of hazardous wastes "drilling fluids, produced waters and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, gas or geothermal energy." Because of this exclusion, many of our operations are exempt from RCRA regulation. Nevertheless, we must comply with RCRA regulations for any of our operations that do not fall within the RCRA exclusion.
The OPA `90 and related regulations impose a variety of regulations on responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills. OPA `90 establishes strict liability for owners of facilities that are the site of a release of oil into "waters of the United States." While OPA `90 liability more typically applies to facilities near substantial bodies of water, at least one district court has held that OPA `90 liability can attach if the contamination could enter waters that may flow into navigable waters.
Stricter standards in environmental legislation may be imposed on the oil and gas industry in the future, such as proposals made in Congress and at the state level from time to time, that would reclassify certain oil and gas
exploration and production wastes as "hazardous wastes" and make the reclassified wastes subject to more stringent and costly handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. The impact of any such changes, however, would not likely be any more burdensome to us than to any other similarly situated company involved in oil and gas exploration and production.
Federal and Indian Leases
A substantial part of our producing properties in Montana consist of oil and gas leases issued by the Bureau of Land Management or by the Blackfeet Tribe under the supervision of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Our activities on these properties must comply with rules and orders that regulate aspects of the oil and gas industry, including drilling and operating on leased land and the calculation and payment of royalties to the federal government or the governing Indian nation. Our operations on Indian lands must also comply with applicable requirements of the governing body of the tribe involved including, in some instances, the employment of tribal members. We believe we are currently in full compliance with all material provisions of such regulations.
Safety and Health Regulations
We must also conduct our operations in accordance with various laws and regulations concerning occupational safety and health. Currently, we do not foresee expending material amounts to comply with these occupational safety and health laws and regulations. However, since such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we are unable to predict the future effect of these laws and regulations.
Title to Properties
We rely on sovereign ownership of exploration rights and mineral interests by the Polish government in connection with our activities in Poland and have not conducted and do not plan to conduct any independent title examination. We regularly consult with our Polish legal counsel when doing business in Poland.
Nearly all of our United States working interests are held under leases from third parties. We typically obtain a title opinion concerning such properties prior to the commencement of drilling operations. We have obtained such title opinions or other third-party review on nearly all of our producing properties, and we believe that we have satisfactory title to all such properties sufficient to meet standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our United States properties are subject to typical burdens, including customary royalty interests and liens for current taxes, but we have concluded that such burdens do not materially interfere with the use of such properties. Further, we believe the economic effects of such burdens have been appropriately reflected in our acquisition cost of such properties and reserve estimates. Title investigation before the acquisition of undeveloped properties is less thorough than that conducted prior to drilling, as is standard practice in the industry.
Employees and Consultants
As of December 31, 2005, we had 39 employees, consisting of nine in Salt Lake City, Utah; 21 in Oilmont, Montana; one in Greenwich, Connecticut; three in Houston, Texas; and five in Poland. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining organization. We consider our relationship with our employees to be satisfactory. We also regularly engage technical consultants to provide specific geological, geophysical and other professional services. Our executive officers and other management employees regularly travel to Poland to supervise activities conducted by our staff and others under contract on our behalf.
Offices and Facilities
Our corporate offices, located at 3006 Highland Drive, Salt Lake City, Utah, contain approximately 3,010 square feet and are rented at $2,960 per month under a month-to-month agreement. In Montana, we own a 16,160 square foot building located at the corner of Central and Main in Oilmont. During 2005, we opened a new production office in Warsaw, located at Ul. Chalubinskiego 8, where we rent a small office suite for approximately $3,200 per month.
Oil and Gas Terms
The following terms have the indicated meaning when used in this report:
"Appraisal well" means a well drilled following a successful exploratory well used to determine the physical extent, reserves and likely production rate of a field.
"Bbl" means oilfield barrel.
"Bcf" means billion cubic feet of natural gas.
"Development well" means a well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive.
"Exploratory well" means a well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
"Field" means an area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic conditions.
"Gross" acres and "gross" wells means the total number of acres or wells, as the case may be, in which an interest is owned, either directly or though a subsidiary or other Polish enterprise in which we have an interest.
"Horizon" means an underground geological formation that is the portion of the larger formation that has sufficient porosity and permeability to constitute a reservoir.
"MBbls" means thousand oilfield barrels.
"Mcf" means thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
"MMBTU" means million British thermal units, a unit of heat energy used to measure the amount of heat that can be generated by burning gas or oil.
"MMcf" means million cubic feet of natural gas.
"Net" means, when referring to wells or acres, the fractional ownership working interests held by us, either directly or through a subsidiary or other Polish enterprise in which we have an interest, multiplied by the gross wells or acres.
"Proved reserves" means the estimated quantities of crude oil, gas and gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. "Proved reserves" may be developed or undeveloped.
"PV-10 Value" means the estimated future net revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves discounted to present value using an annual discount rate of 10.0%. These amounts are calculated net of estimated production costs, future development costs and future income taxes, using prices and costs in effect as of a certain date, without escalation and without giving effect to non property-related expenses, such general and administrative costs, debt service, and depreciation, depletion and amortization.
"Reservoir" means a porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and that is distinct and separate from other reservoirs.
"Usufruct" means the Polish equivalent of a U.S. oil and gas lease.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ITEM 3.