ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Proved Reserves
Proved reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reserves under existing economic and operating conditions. Our proved gas and oil reserve quantities and values are based on estimates prepared by independent reserve engineers in accordance with guidelines established by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Operating costs, production taxes, and development costs were deducted in determining the quantity and value information. Such costs were estimated based on current costs and were not adjusted to anticipate increases due to inflation or other factors. No price escalations were assumed, and no amounts were deducted for general overhead, depreciation, depletion and amortization, and interest expense. The proved reserve quantity and value information is based on the weighted average price on December 31, 2008, of $36.56 per barrel of oil, or Bbl, and $5.29 per thousand cubic feet, or Mcf, of gas in Poland and $24.58 per Bbl for oil in the United States. The determination of gas and oil reserves is based on estimates and is highly complex and interpretive, as there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves, projecting future rates of production, and the timing and amount of development expenditures. The estimated present value, discounted at 10% per annum, of the future net cash flows, the Standardized Measure of Future Net Cash Flows (“SMOG”), or PV-10 Value, was determined in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 69, “Disclosure About Oil and Gas Activities,” and SEC guidelines. Our proved reserve estimates are subject to continuing revisions as additional information becomes available or assumptions change.
Estimates of our proved Polish gas reserves were prepared by RPS Energy, an independent engineering firm in the United Kingdom. Estimates of our proved United States oil reserves were prepared by Larry Krause Consulting, an independent engineering firm in Billings, Montana. No estimates of our proved reserves were filed with or included in any report to any other federal agency during 2008.
The following summary of proved reserve information as of December 31, 2008, represents discounted, after tax estimates net to us only, and should not be construed as exact:
Drilling Activities
The following table sets forth the exploratory wells that we drilled during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006:
Wells and Acreage
_______________
(1)
As of December 31, 2008, we had four wells in Poland awaiting the construction of production facilities.
(2)
All of our producing United States wells are oil wells. We have no gas production in the United States.
The following table sets forth our gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped gas and oil acreage as of December 31, 2008:
_______________
(1)
All gross and net undeveloped Polish acreage is rounded to the nearest 1,000 acres.
Polish Properties
Producing Properties
A summary of our average daily production, average working interest, and net revenue interest for our Poland producing properties during 2008 follows:
Production, Transportation and Marketing
We did not place any new discoveries into production in Poland during 2008, and production from our Wilga well declined sharply, which resulted in an overall decline in production during 2008. We expect production will increase as we place four previous discoveries into production in 2009 and 2010.
The following table sets forth our net daily gas and oil production, average sales price, and average production costs associated with our Polish production during 2008, 2007, and 2006:
_______________
(1)
Average daily net production amounts shown are calculated based on days of actual production.
(2)
Production costs include lifting costs (electricity, fuel, water, disposal, repairs, maintenance, transportation, and similar items), and contract operator fees. Production costs do not include such items as general and administrative costs; depreciation, depletion and amortization; or Polish income taxes.
Poland has a network of gas pipelines and crude oil pipelines traversing the country serving major metropolitan, commercial, industrial, and gas production areas, including significant portions of our acreage. Poland has a well-developed infrastructure of hard-surfaced roads and railways over which oil produced can be transported for sale. There are refineries in Gdansk and Plock in Poland and one in Germany near the western Polish border that we believe could process crude oil produced in Poland. Should we choose to export any gas or oil we produce, we will be required to obtain prior governmental approval.
We are currently selling substantially all of our gas and oil production in Poland to POGC or one of its affiliates. Gas is sold pursuant to long-term sales contracts, typically for the life of each well, which obligate POGC to purchase all gas produced. Individual oil sales are negotiated with POGC-affiliated entities and are not subject to sales contracts.
United States Properties
Producing Properties
In the United States, we currently produce oil in Montana and Nevada. All of our producing properties, except for the Rattlers Butte field (an exploratory discovery during 1997), were purchased during 1994. A summary of our average daily production, average working interest, and net revenue interest for our United States producing properties during 2008 follows:
In Montana, we operate the Cut Bank and Bears Den fields and have an interest in the Rattlers Butte field, which is operated by an industry partner. Production in the Cut Bank field, producing since the 1940s from an average depth of approximately 2,900 feet, is from a waterflood program with 120 producing oil wells, 30 active injection wells, and one active water supply well. The Bears Den field, under waterflood since 1990, is producing oil from five wells at a depth of approximately 2,430 feet, with one active water injection well. In the Rattlers Butte field, we own a 6.3% working interest in two oil wells producing at a depth of approximately 5,800 feet and one active water injection well.
In Nevada, we operate the Trap Springs and Munson Ranch fields and have an interest in the Bacon Flat field, which is operated by an industry partner. In the Trap Springs field, discovered in 1976, we produce oil from a depth of approximately 3,700 feet from one well. In the Munson Ranch field, discovered in 1988, we produce oil at an average depth of 3,800 feet from five wells. In the Bacon Flat field, discovered in 1981, we produce oil from one well at a depth of approximately 5,000 feet.
Production, Transportation and Marketing
The following table sets forth our average net daily oil production, average sales price, and average production costs associated with our United States oil production during 2008, 2007, and 2006:
_______________
(1)
Production costs include lifting costs (electricity, fuel, water, disposal, repairs, maintenance, pumper, transportation, and similar items) and production taxes. Production costs do not include such items as general and administrative costs; depreciation, depletion and amortization; state income taxes, or federal income taxes.
We sell oil at posted field prices to one of several purchasers in each of our production areas. We sell all of our Montana production, which represents over 93% of our total oil sales, to CENEX, a regional refiner and marketer. Posted prices are generally competitive among crude oil purchasers. Our crude oil sales contracts may be terminated by either party upon 30 days’ notice.
Oilfield Services - Drilling Rig and Well-Servicing Equipment
In Montana, we perform, through our drilling subsidiary, FX Drilling Company, Inc., a variety of third-party contract oilfield services, including drilling, workovers, location work, cementing, and acidizing. We currently have a drilling rig capable of drilling to a vertical depth of 6,000 feet, a workover rig, two service rigs, cementing equipment, acidizing equipment, and other associated oilfield servicing equipment.
The Republic of Poland
The Republic of Poland is located in central Europe, has a population of approximately 39 million people, and covers an area comparable in size to New Mexico. During 1989, Poland peacefully asserted its independence and became a parliamentary democracy. Since 1989, Poland has enacted comprehensive economic reform programs and stabilization measures that have enabled it to form a free-market economy and turn its economic ties from the east to the west, with most of its current international trade with the countries of the European Union and the United States. The economy has undergone extensive restructuring in the post-communist era. The Polish government credits foreign investment as a forceful growth factor in successfully creating a stable, free-market economy.
Since its transition to a free-market economy and a parliamentary democracy, Poland has experienced significant economic growth and political change. Poland has developed and is refining legal, tax, and regulatory systems characteristic of parliamentary democracies with interpretation and procedural safeguards. The Polish government has taken steps to harmonize Polish legislation with that of the European Union, which it joined in May of 2004.
Poland has created an attractive legal framework and fiscal regime for gas and oil exploration by actively encouraging investment by foreign companies. In July 1995, Poland’s Council of Ministers approved a program to restructure and privatize the Polish petroleum sector. So far under this plan, a refinery located in Plock has been privatized as a publicly held company with its stock trading on the London and Warsaw stock exchanges. In September of 2005, POGC sold 15% of its stock in an initial public offering on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, raising a total of 2.7 billion Polish zlotys (approximately US$900 million).
Prior to becoming a parliamentary democracy during 1989, the exploration and development of Poland’s gas and oil resources were hindered by a combination of foreign influence, a centrally controlled economy, limited financial resources, and a lack of modern exploration technology. As a result of these and other factors, Poland is currently a net energy importer. Oil is imported primarily from countries of the former Soviet Union and the Middle East, and gas is imported primarily from Russia.
Legal Framework
General Usufruct and Concession Terms
All of our rights in Poland have been awarded to us or to POGC pursuant to the Geological and Mining Law, which specifies the process for obtaining domestic exploration and exploitation rights. Under the Geological and Mining Law, the concession authority enters into mining usufruct (lease) agreements that grant the holder the exclusive right to explore for gas and oil in a designated area or to exploit the designated oil and/or gas field for a specified period under prescribed terms and conditions. The holder of the mining usufruct covering exploration must also acquire an exploration concession by applying to the concession authority and providing the opportunity for comment by local governmental authorities. The usufruct agreements include provisions that give the usufruct holder a claim for an extension of the usufruct (and the underlying concession), subject to having fulfilled all obligations under the usufruct and/or concession agreements.
Under current law, the concession authority requires that concessions and related usufructs be owned by a single entity, without recognizing any minority record ownership such as would reflect our interest in those areas in which we previously have been granted a minority ownership. As such, our ownership is subject to continued compliance with applicable law, the usufruct and concession terms, and, with regards to the Fences area, the solvency of POGC as the record owner.
The concession authority has granted POGC gas and oil exploration rights on the Fences project area, and has granted us gas and oil exploration rights on all other project areas in which we have an interest. The agreements divide these areas into blocks, containing up to 300,000 acres.
If commercially viable gas or oil is discovered, the concession owner may produce it for two years based on the exploration concession, then apply for an exploitation concession, as provided by the usufructs, generally with a term of 25 to 30 years or as long as commercial production continues. Upon the grant of the exploitation concession, the concession owner may become obligated to pay a fee, to be negotiated, but expected to be less than 1% of the market value of the estimated recoverable reserves in place. The concession owner would also be required to pay a royalty on any production, the amount of which will be set by the Council of Ministers, within a range established by legislation for the mineral being extracted. The royalty rate for high-methane gas is currently less than $0.05 per Mcf. Local governments will receive 60% of any royalties paid on production. The holder of the exploitation concession must also acquire rights to use the land from the surface owner and could be subject to significant delays in obtaining the consents of local authorities or satisfying other governmental requirements prior to obtaining an exploitation concession.
We believe all material concession terms have been satisfied to date.
Existing Project Areas
Fences Project Area
The Fences project area consists of four gas and oil exploration concessions controlled by POGC. Three producing fields (Radlin, Kleka, and Kaleje) lie within the concession boundary, but are excluded from the Fences concessions. The concessions have expiration dates ranging from July 2009 to July 2014. The total remaining work commitment includes: acquiring 100 kilometers of 2-D seismic data, 180 square kilometers of 3-D seismic data, and drilling three wells. POGC has filed an application for an extension for the concession expiring in 2009, which we expect to be granted.
Wilga/Block 255 Project Area
The Wilga project area consists of a single gas and oil exploration concession held by us that expires in August 2009. The remaining period carries a work commitment of 80 kilometers of 2-D seismic data. We plan to file an application for extension for this concession in 2009, which we expect to be granted.
Block 287 Project Area
The Block 287 project area consists of a single gas and oil exploration concession held by us. Several producing fields also lie within this concession’s boundaries, but are excluded from the Block 287 project area. The concession is for a period of six years ending in December 2009. Work commitments included acquiring 100 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data or drilling one well, which was satisfied by the drilling of the Drozdowice-1 well, and analysis and interpretation of existing well data. Beginning in the fourth year, there was a drilling requirement of a second well that will be satisfied by re-entering and producing the Grabowka gas field in 2009. We plan to file an application for extension for this concession in 2009, which we expect to be granted.
Northwest Project Area
The Northwest project area consists of seven gas and oil exploration concessions granted at various times in 2006, 2007 and 2008, with expiration dates ranging from October 2012 through September 2014. The total work commitment for three of the blocks was outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 800 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data; Phase III - three years: drilling three wells. The total work commitment for the remaining four blocks is outlined in two phases: Phase I - either two or three years: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data and acquiring 210 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase II - three years: drilling four wells.
Kutno Project Area
The Kutno project area consists of three gas and oil exploration concessions. The first concession was granted in 2007 for a period of six years, and two new concessions were added in 2008 for a period of three years. The total work commitment for the initial concession is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one and one half years: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: drilling one well or acquiring 100 kilometers of 2-D seismic; Phase III - two and a half years: drilling one well. The work commitments for the 2008 concessions are outlined in two phases: Phase 1 - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 200 kilometers of 2-D seismic data.
Warsaw South Project Area
This project area is adjacent to Block 255 and consists of four exploration concessions with expiration dates ranging from September 2012 to July 2013. The total work commitment for the four concessions is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 450 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data; Phase III - three years: drilling four wells.
As of December 31, 2008, all required usufruct/concession payments had been made for each of the above project areas.
Project Areas added in 2008
Edge Project Area
The Edge project area consists of four gas and oil exploration concessions granted for the period of five years. The total work commitment is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 350 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase III - two years: drilling four wells.
Block 246 Project Area
The Block 246 project area is adjacent to the Fences project area in the south and consists of a single concession granted for six years. The work commitment is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 120 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase III - three years: drilling one well.
Block 229 Project Area
The Block 229 project area is adjacent to the Fences project area and consists of two explorations concessions granted for the period of six years. The total work commitment is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 300 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase III - three years: drilling two wells.
Government Regulation
Poland
Our activities in Poland are subject to political, economic, and other uncertainties, including the adoption of new laws, regulations, or administrative policies that may adversely affect us or the terms of our exploration or production rights; political instability and changes in government or public or administrative policies; export and transportation tariffs and local and national taxes; foreign exchange and currency restrictions and fluctuations; repatriation limitations; inflation; environmental regulations; and other matters. These operations in Poland are subject to the Geological and Mining Law dated as of September 4, 1994 (as amended), and the Protection and Management of the Environment Act dated as of January 31, 1980 (as amended), which are the current primary
statutes governing environmental protection. Agreements with the government of Poland respecting our exploration and production areas create certain standards to be met regarding environmental protection. Participants in gas and oil exploration, development, and production activities generally are required to: (1) adhere to good international petroleum industry practices, including practices relating to the protection of the environment; and (2) prepare and submit geological work plans, with specific attention to environmental matters, to the appropriate agency of state geological administration for its approval prior to engaging in field operations such as seismic data acquisition, exploratory drilling, and field-wide development. Poland’s regulatory framework respecting environmental protection is not as fully developed and detailed as that which exists in the United States. We intend to conduct our operations in Poland in accordance with good international petroleum industry practices and, as they continue to develop, Polish requirements.
United States
State and Local Regulation of Drilling and Production
Our exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state, and local levels. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, and the plugging and abandoning of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells that may be drilled and the unitization or pooling of gas and oil properties. In this regard, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production.
Our oil production is affected to some degree by state regulations. States in which we operate have statutory provisions regulating the production and sale of gas and oil, including provisions regarding deliverability. Such statutes and related regulations are generally intended to prevent waste of gas and oil and to protect correlative rights to produce gas and oil between owners of a common reservoir. Certain state regulatory authorities also regulate the amount of gas and oil produced by assigning allowable rates of production to each well or proration unit.
Environmental Regulations
The federal government and various state and local governments have adopted laws and regulations regarding the control of contamination of the environment. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit by operators before drilling commences; restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. These laws and regulations may also increase the costs of drilling and operating wells. We may also be held liable for the costs of removal and damages arising out of a pollution incident to the extent set forth in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA ‘90. In addition, we may be subject to other civil claims arising out of any such incident. As with any owner of property, we are also subject to clean-up costs and liability for hazardous materials, asbestos, or any other toxic or hazardous substance that may exist on or under any of our properties. We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws, rules, and regulations and that continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Furthermore, we do not believe that we are affected in a significantly different manner by these laws and regulations than our competitors in the gas and oil industry.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, also known as the “Superfund” law, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to be responsible for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. Furthermore, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment.
The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and regulations promulgated thereunder govern the generation, storage, transfer, and disposal of hazardous wastes. RCRA, however, excludes from the definition of hazardous wastes “drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, gas, or geothermal energy.” Because of this exclusion, many of our operations are exempt from RCRA regulation. Nevertheless, we must comply with RCRA regulations for any of our operations that do not fall within the RCRA exclusion.
The OPA ‘90 and related regulations impose a variety of regulations on responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills. OPA ‘90 establishes strict liability for owners of facilities that are the site of a release of oil into “waters of the United States.” While OPA ‘90 liability more typically applies to facilities near substantial bodies of water, at least one district court has held that OPA ‘90 liability can attach if the contamination could enter waters that may flow into navigable waters.
Stricter standards in environmental legislation may be imposed on the gas and oil industry in the future, such as proposals made in Congress and at the state level from time to time, that would reclassify certain gas and oil exploration and production wastes as “hazardous wastes” and make the reclassified wastes subject to more stringent and costly handling, disposal, and clean-up requirements. The impact of any such changes, however, would not likely be any more burdensome to us than to any other similarly situated company involved in gas and oil exploration and production.
Federal and Indian Leases
A substantial part of our producing properties in Montana consists of gas and oil leases issued by the Bureau of Land Management or by the Blackfeet Tribe under the supervision of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Our activities on these properties must comply with rules and orders that regulate aspects of the gas and oil industry, including drilling and operating on leased land and the calculation and payment of royalties to the federal government or the governing Indian nation. Our operations on Indian lands must also comply with applicable requirements of the governing body of the tribe involved including, in some instances, the employment of tribal members. We believe we are currently in full compliance with all material provisions of such regulations.
Safety and Health Regulations
We must also conduct our operations in accordance with various laws and regulations concerning occupational safety and health. Currently, we do not foresee expending material amounts to comply with these occupational safety and health laws and regulations. However, since such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we are unable to predict the future effect of these laws and regulations.
Title to Properties
We rely on sovereign ownership of exploration rights and mineral interests by the Polish government in connection with our activities in Poland and have not conducted and do not plan to conduct any independent title examination. We regularly consult with our Polish legal counsel when doing business in Poland.
Nearly all of our United States working interests are held under leases from third parties. We typically obtain a title opinion concerning such properties prior to the commencement of drilling operations. We have obtained such title opinions or other third-party review on all of our producing properties, and we believe that we have satisfactory title to all such properties sufficient to meet standards generally accepted in the gas and oil industry. Our United States properties are subject to typical burdens, including customary royalty interests and liens for current taxes, but we have concluded that such burdens do not materially interfere with the use of such properties. Further, we believe the economic effects of such burdens have been appropriately reflected in our acquisition cost of such properties and reserve estimates. Title investigation before the acquisition of undeveloped properties is less thorough than that conducted prior to drilling, as is standard practice in the industry.
Employees and Consultants
As of December 31, 2008, we had 47 employees, consisting of nine in Salt Lake City, Utah; 22 in Oilmont, Montana; one in Greenwich, Connecticut; three in Houston, Texas; and twelve in Poland. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining organization. We consider our relationship with our employees to be
satisfactory. We also regularly engage technical consultants to provide specific geological, geophysical, and other professional services. Our executive officers and other management employees regularly travel to Poland to supervise activities conducted by our staff and others under contract on our behalf.
Offices and Facilities
Our corporate offices, located at 3006 Highland Drive, Salt Lake City, Utah, contain approximately 3,500 square feet and are rented at $3,400 per month under a month-to-month agreement. In Montana, we own a 16,160 square foot building located at the corner of Central and Main in Oilmont. We also have an office in Warsaw, Poland, located at Ul. Chalubinskiego 8, which we rent for approximately $4,300 per month.
Gas and Oil Terms
The following terms have the indicated meaning when used in this report:
“Appraisal well” means a well drilled following a successful exploratory well used to determine the physical extent, reserves and likely production rate of a field.
“Bbl” means oilfield barrel.
“Bcf” means billion cubic feet of natural gas.
“Bcfe” means billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
“Ca1” and “Ca2” refer to specific geological formations.
“Development well” means a well drilled within the proved area of a gas or oil reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive.
“Exploratory well” means a well drilled to find and produce gas or oil in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of gas or oil in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
“Field” means an area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic conditions.
“Gross” acres and “gross” wells mean the total number of acres or wells, as the case may be, in which an interest is owned, either directly or through a subsidiary or other Polish enterprise in which we have an interest.
“Horizon” means an underground geological formation that is the portion of the larger formation that has sufficient porosity and permeability to constitute a reservoir.
“MBbls” means thousand oilfield barrels.
“Mcf” means thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
“Mcfe” means thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
“MMcf” means million cubic feet of natural gas.
“MMcfD” means million cubic feet of natural gas per day.
“Net” means, when referring to wells or acres, the fractional ownership working interests held by us, either directly or through a subsidiary or other Polish enterprise in which we have an interest, multiplied by the gross wells or acres.
“Proved reserves” means the estimated quantities of crude oil, gas and gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years fromknown reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. “Proved reserves” may be developed or undeveloped.
“PV-10 Value” means the estimated future net revenue to be generated from the production of proved reserves discounted to present value using an annual discount rate of 10.0%, the Standardized Measure of Future Net Cash Flows (“SMOG”). These amounts are calculated net of estimated production costs, future development costs and future income taxes, using prices and costs in effect as of a certain date, without escalation and without giving effect to non property-related expenses, such general and administrative costs, debt service, and depreciation, depletion and amortization.
“Reservoir” means a porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and that is distinct and separate from other reservoirs.
“Tcf” means trillion cubic feet of natural gas.
“Usufruct” means the Polish equivalent of a U.S. gas and oil lease.
_____________________________________________________________________________________
ITEM 3.