ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Proved Reserves Disclosures
Securities and Exchange Commission Modernization of Oil and Gas Reserves Reporting
On December 31, 2009, we adopted the Securities and Exchange Commission’s rule revisions designed to modernize the oil and gas company reserves reporting requirements. The most significant amendments to the requirements included the following:
·
Commodity Prices - Economic producibility of reserves and discounted cash flows are now based on the use of unweighted, 12-month first day of the month historical average prices adjusted for basis and quality differentials, rather than year-end prices.
·
Disclosure of Unproved Reserves - Probable and possible reserves may be disclosed separately on a voluntary basis.
·
Proved Undeveloped Reserves Guidelines - Reserves may be classified as proved undeveloped if there is a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered and they are scheduled to be drilled within the next five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
·
Third-Party Reserves Preparation - If a company represents that its estimates of reserves are prepared or audited by a third party, the company must file a report of the third party as an exhibit to the relevant registration statement or report.
·
Use of Probabilistic Methods - Reserves may be estimated using probabilistic methods in which there is at least a 90% probability of recovery of “proved” reserves, at least a 50% probability of recovery of “probable” reserves, and at least a 10% probability of recovery of “possible” reserves.
·
Disclosure by Geographic Area - Reserves in foreign countries or continents must be presented separately if they represent more than 15% of total oil and gas proved reserves.
Additional disclosure as provided below was also required by the Securities and Exchange Commission revisions.
Effect of Adoption
Use of 12-month average pricing at December 31, 2009, as required by the current rules, resulted in a decrease in proved developed oil reserves of approximately 1.0 MMcfe in 2009. We did not calculate the impact of the current rules on our 2010 or 2011 reserves. Changes in the proved undeveloped reserves rules had no impact on our reserve quantities, as we do not include any reserves for undrilled locations.
Internal Controls over Reserves Estimates
Our policies regarding internal controls over the recording of reserves estimates require such estimates to be in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s definitions and guidance and prepared in accordance with customary petroleum engineering practices. Responsibility for compliance in reserves bookings is delegated to our operations and finance staff, who submit technical and financial data to third-party engineering firms.
Estimates of our proved and probable Polish reserves were calculated by RPS Energy, an independent engineering firm in the United Kingdom. Estimates of our proved domestic reserves were calculated by Hohn Engineering, an independent engineering firm in Billings, Montana. The technical personnel responsible for calculating the reserve estimates at both RPS Energy and Hohn Engineering meet the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Both RPS Energy and Hohn Engineering are independent firms of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petrophysicists; they do not own an interest in our properties and are not employed on a contingent fee basis.
Proved and Probable Reserves
Proved reserves are estimated quantities of oil and gas that, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward and recoverable in future years from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods, and governmental regulations, prior to the expiration of the contracts providing the right to operate, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain. Proved developed reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods, or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well, and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Proved undeveloped reserves on undrilled acreage are limited: (i) to those directly offsetting development spacing areas that are reasonably certain of production when drilled, unless evidence using reliable technology exists that establishes reasonable certainty of economic producibility at greater distances; and (ii) to other undrilled locations if a development plan has been adopted indicating that they are scheduled to be drilled within five years, unless the specific circumstances justify a longer time.
Probable reserves are those additional reserves that are less certain to be recovered than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered. When deterministic methods are used, it is as likely as not that actual remaining quantities recovered will exceed the sum of estimated proved plus probable reserves. When probabilistic methods are used, there should be at least a 50% probability that the actual quantities recovered will equal or exceed the proved plus probable reserves estimates. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas of a reservoir adjacent to proved reserves where data control or interpretations of available data are less certain, even if the interpreted reservoir continuity of structure or productivity does not meet the reasonable certainty criterion. Probable reserves may be assigned to areas that are structurally higher than the proved area if these areas are in communication with the proved reservoir. Probable reserves estimates also include potential incremental quantities associated with a greater percentage recovery of the hydrocarbons in place than assumed for proved reserves.
We emphasize that the volume of reserves are estimates that by their nature are subject to revision. The estimates are made using geological and reservoir data, as well as production performance data. These estimates are reviewed annually and revised, either upward or downward, as warranted by additional performance data. These reserve revisions result primarily from increases or decreases in performance from a variety of sources such as an addition to or a reduction in recoveries below or above previously established lowest known hydrocarbon levels, improvements or deteriorations in drainage from natural drive mechanisms, and increases or decreases to drainage areas. If the estimates of proved reserves were to decline, the rate at which we record depletion expense would increase.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
As of December 31, 2011, our proved undeveloped reserves totaled 17.6 Bcf of natural gas. All of our proved undeveloped reserves are located in Poland, and all are associated with wells that have been drilled, tested, and completed for production. We do not have any proved undeveloped reserves attributable to undrilled locations. These reserves are classified as proved undeveloped because relatively major expenditures are required for the completion of production facilities, which includes the construction of pipelines to connect the wells to the existing pipeline in order to fully develop the reserves and commence production. The development of such undeveloped reserves is not dependent on additional drilling on undrilled acreage. All development activities will be completed within five years of reserve bookings.
Changes in Proved Undeveloped Reserves
No reserves were converted from undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2010, to developed reserves at December 31, 2011.
Development Costs
Costs incurred relating to the development of proved undeveloped reserves were approximately $3.0 million in 2011, almost all of which were attributable to the construction of production facilities at our KSK wells.
Estimated future development costs relating to the development of proved undeveloped reserves are projected to be approximately $6.0 million in 2012. The estimated development costs are for the cost of facilities construction at our Winna Gora and Lisewo production facilities and not for the drilling of development wells.
For more information, see the following:
·
Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Proved Reserves, for a discussion of changes in proved reserves;
·
Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Policies - Oil and Gas Reserves, for further discussion of our reserves estimation process; and
·
Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Supplemental Information, for additional information regarding estimates of crude oil and natural gas reserves, including estimates of proved, proved developed, and proved undeveloped reserves, the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and the changes in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows.
Other Reserves Information
Since January 1, 2011, no crude oil or natural gas reserves information has been filed with, or included in any report to, any other federal authority or agency.
Reserve Volumes and Values
The following table sets forth our estimated proved developed, proved undeveloped, and probable reserves volumes as of December 31, 2011:
The following table sets forth the estimated PV-10 Value of our proved plus probable reserves as of December 31, 2011:
Our proved reserves were calculated using deterministic methods. Our probable reserves were calculated using probabilistic methods and represent the 50% probability that the actual quantities recovered will be equal to or greater than the proved plus probable estimate. No additional drilling is required at any of our Polish wells to achieve the recovery of the probable reserves. The larger quantity of proved reserves plus probable reserves, as compared to proved reserves only, is attributable largely to using a less certain interpretation of reservoir size and a higher recovery factor in estimating probable reserves.
Economic producibility of reserves and discounted cash flows are based on the use of unweighted, 12-month first day of the month historical average prices adjusted for basis and quality differentials, rather than year-end prices. In Poland, average gas prices used in calculating reserve values also take into consideration exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and Polish zloty in effect on the first day of each month. The average prices used to calculate year-end reserve values were $6.44 and $5.66 per Mcf and $84.61 and $68.12 per barrel for 2011 and 2010, respectively.
Drilling Activities
The following table sets forth the exploratory wells that we drilled during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009:
The productive exploratory well drilled in 2011 was our Lisewo-1 well, which had net proved reserves of 12.2 Bcf of natural gas at year-end 2011. The exploratory dry hole in Poland drilled in 2011 was our Machnatka-2 well. The foregoing does not include the Plawce-1 and Kutno-2 wells being drilled or evaluated in Poland at 2011 year end. It also does not include two vertical and one horizontal Alberta Bakken shale wells drilled in the United States that were being evaluated at year-end 2011. We did not drill any development wells in 2011, 2010, or 2009.
Wells and Acreage
As of December 31, 2011, our gross and net producing wells consisted of the following:
_______________
(1)
In addition to the wells producing at year-end 2011, an additional well resumed production in early January 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we had two wells in Poland awaiting the construction of production facilities.
The following table sets forth our gross and net acres of developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage as of December 31, 2011. All of our gas production is in Poland and all of our oil production is in the United States:
_______________
(1)
All gross and net undeveloped Polish acreage is rounded to the nearest 1,000 acres.
(2)
PGNiG will earn a 50% interest in our Kutno acreage upon completion of drilling at the Kutno-1 well.
(3)
The figures shown for Montana developed acreage represent the gross and net working interests in the Cut Bank formation in our SWCBSU. In 2011, we entered into a joint venture to explore various formations, including the Alberta Bakken and Three Forks shale formations, which lie below the Cut Bank formation. As part of the joint venture, we contributed our rights to the deeper formation to a project that encompassed a total of approximately 75,000 gross acres, in which we own 33%. The incremental acreage that is subject to the joint venture arrangement at year-end 2011, approximately 79,000 gross and 26,000 net acres, is included in the total gross and net undeveloped acres in Montana.
Polish Properties
Producing Properties
A summary of our average daily production, average interest, and net revenue interest for our Poland producing properties during 2011 follows:
Production, Transportation and Marketing
During 2011, our Roszkow and Zaniemysl wells produced steadily throughout the year. Production from our Sroda-4, Kromolice-1, and Kromolice-2 wells was intermittent, as we dealt with restricted pipeline capacity due to a bottleneck in the gas production system in the KSK area. In September of 2011, the Kromolice-1 well began steady production at a rate agreed upon with PGNiG. In early 2012, the Sroda-4 well, which our independent reservoir engineers believe is part of the same producing field as Kromolice-1, began continous production at its agreed-upon rate. We expect the pipeline bottleneck to be resolved in the second quarter of 2012, at which time the Kromolice-2 well will begin steady production.
The following table sets forth, by well, our net daily oil and gas production and volume weighted average sales prices and production costs associated with our Polish production during 2011, 2010, and 2009:
_______________
(1)
Production costs include lifting costs (electricity, fuel, water, disposal, repairs, maintenance, transportation, and similar items) and contract operator fees. Production costs do not include such items as general and administrative costs; depreciation, depletion and amortization; or Polish income taxes.
(2)
Kromolice-2 production costs include the cost of a workover performed in early 2011.
(3)
Production costs at other wells include the costs of maintaining the production facilities at our Wilga and Kleka wells, neither of which is currently in production.
Poland has a network of gas pipelines and crude oil pipelines traversing the country serving major metropolitan, commercial, industrial, and gas production areas, including significant portions of our acreage. Poland has a well-developed infrastructure of hard-surfaced roads and railways over which oil produced can be transported for sale. There are refineries in Gdansk and Plock in Poland and one in Germany near the western Polish border that we believe could process crude oil produced in Poland. Should we choose to export any gas or oil we produce, we will be required to obtain prior governmental approval.
We are currently selling substantially all of our oil and gas production in Poland to PGNiG or one of its affiliates. We are dependent on PGNiG for the sale of gas in Poland, since there are few other competitive purchasers. Gas is sold pursuant to long-term sales contracts, typically for the life of each well, which obligate PGNiG to purchase all gas produced.
United States Properties
Producing Properties
In the United States, we currently produce oil in Montana and Nevada. All of our producing properties, except for the Rattlers Butte field (an exploratory discovery during 1997), were purchased during 1994. A summary of our average daily production, and average working and net revenue interests, based on the number of producing wells, for our United States producing properties during 2011 follows:
In Montana, we operate the Southwest Cut Bank Sand Unit (SWCBSU) and Bears Den fields and have an interest in the Rattlers Butte field, which is operated by an industry partner. Production in the SWCBSU, producing since the 1940s from an average depth of approximately 2,900 feet, is from a waterflood program with 103 producing oil wells, 24 active injection wells, and one active water supply well. The Bears Den field, under waterflood since 1990, is producing oil from five wells at a depth of approximately 2,430 feet, with one active water injection well. In the Rattlers Butte field, we own a 0.683% interest in two oil wells producing at a depth of approximately 5,800 feet and one active water injection well.
In Nevada, we operate the Trap Springs and Munson Ranch fields and have an interest in the Bacon Flat field, which is operated by an industry partner. In the Trap Springs field, discovered in 1976, we produce oil from a depth of approximately 3,700 feet from one well. In the Munson Ranch field, discovered in 1988, we produce oil at an average depth of 3,800 feet from five wells. In the Bacon Flat field, discovered in 1981, we produce oil from one well at a depth of approximately 5,000 feet.
Production, Transportation and Marketing
The following table sets forth our average net daily oil production, average sales prices, and production costs associated with our United States oil production during 2011, 2010, and 2009:
_______________
(1)
Production costs include lifting costs (electricity, fuel, water, disposal, repairs, maintenance, pumper, transportation, and similar items) and production taxes. Production costs do not include such items as general and administrative costs; depreciation, depletion and amortization; state income taxes, or federal income taxes. Costs in 2011 include approximately $321,000 associated with the cleanup of a minor oil leak. Excluding the cleanup costs, lifting costs per barrel in 2011 would have equaled approximately $44.73 per barrel.
We sell oil at posted field prices to one of several purchasers in each of our production areas. We sell all of our Montana production, which represents over 95% of our total oil sales, to Cenex, a regional refiner and marketer. Posted prices are generally competitive among crude oil purchasers. Our crude oil sales contracts may be terminated by either party upon 30 days’ notice.
Oilfield Services - Drilling Rig and Well-Servicing Equipment
In Montana, we perform, through our drilling subsidiary, FX Drilling Company, Inc., a variety of third-party contract oilfield services, including drilling, workovers, location work, cementing, and acidizing. We currently have a drilling rig capable of drilling to a vertical depth of 6,000 feet, a workover rig, two service rigs, cementing equipment, acidizing equipment, and other associated oilfield-servicing equipment.
The Republic of Poland
The Republic of Poland is located in north-central Europe, has a population of approximately 38 million people, and covers an area comparable to New Mexico. During 1989, Poland peacefully asserted its independence and became a parliamentary democracy. Since 1989, Poland has enacted comprehensive economic reform programs and stabilization measures that have enabled it to form a free-market economy and turn its economic ties from the east to the west, with most of its current international trade with the countries of the European Union and the United States. The economy has undergone extensive restructuring in the post-communist era. The Polish government credits foreign investment as a forceful growth factor in successfully creating a stable, free-market economy.
Since its transition to a free-market economy and a parliamentary democracy, Poland has experienced significant economic growth and political change. Poland has developed and is refining legal, tax, and regulatory systems characteristic of parliamentary democracies with interpretation and procedural safeguards. The Polish government has taken steps to harmonize Polish legislation with that of the European Union, which it joined in May of 2004.
Poland has created an attractive legal framework and fiscal regime for oil and gas exploration by actively encouraging investment by foreign companies. In July 1995, Poland’s Council of Ministers approved a program to restructure and privatize the Polish petroleum sector. So far under this plan, a refinery located in Plock has been privatized as a publicly held company with its stock trading on the London and Warsaw stock exchanges. In September of 2005, PGNiG sold 15% of its stock in an initial public offering on the Warsaw Stock Exchange, raising a total of 2.7 billion Polish zlotys (approximately US$900 million).
Prior to becoming a parliamentary democracy during 1989, the exploration and development of Poland’s oil and gas resources were hindered by a combination of foreign influence, a centrally controlled economy, limited financial resources, and a lack of modern exploration technology. As a result of these and other factors, Poland is currently a net energy importer. Oil is imported primarily from countries of the former Soviet Union and the Middle East, and gas is imported primarily from Russia.
Poland continues to enjoy the strongest economy in the European Union, and was the only country in Europe to record positive GDP growth every year from 2008 through 2011. Economists predict another positive year during 2012.
Legal Framework
General Usufruct and Concession Terms
All of our rights in Poland have been awarded to us or to PGNiG pursuant to the Geological and Mining Law, which specifies the process for obtaining domestic exploration and exploitation rights. Under the Geological and Mining Law, the concession authority enters into mining usufruct (lease) agreements that grant the holder the exclusive right to explore for oil and gas in a designated area or to exploit the designated oil and/or gas field for a specified period under prescribed terms and conditions. The holder of the mining usufruct covering exploration must also acquire an exploration concession by applying to the concession authority and providing the opportunity for comment by local governmental authorities. The usufruct agreements include provisions that give the usufruct holder a claim for an extension of the usufruct (and the underlying concession), subject to having fulfilled all obligations under the usufruct and/or concession agreements. We can request changes to usufruct and concession agreements that either modify the obligations or extend the terms of those agreements.
Under current law, the concession authority requires that concessions be owned by a single entity, without recognizing any minority record ownership such as would reflect our interest in those areas in which we previously have been granted a minority ownership. As such, our ownership is subject to continued compliance with applicable law, the usufruct and concession terms, and respecting the Fences area, the continuity of PGNiG as the record owner.
The concession authority has granted PGNiG oil and gas exploration rights on the Fences project area and has granted us oil and gas exploration rights on all other project areas in which we have an interest. The agreements divide these areas into blocks, each containing up to 300,000 acres.
If commercially viable gas or oil is discovered, the concession owner may be able to produce such gas or oil for test purposes for a period of two years based on the exploration concession. During such two-year period, the concession owner typically applies for an exploitation concession, which generally will have a term of 25 to 30 years or as long as commercial production continues. Upon the grant of the exploitation concession, the concession owner may become obligated to pay a fee, to be negotiated, but expected to be less than 1% of the market value of the estimated recoverable reserves in place. The concession owner would also be required to pay a royalty on any production, the amount of which will be set by the Council of Ministers, within a range established by legislation for the mineral being extracted. The royalty rate for low-methane gas such as we produce is currently set for 2012 at approximately $0.04 per Mcf. Local governments will receive 60% of any royalties paid on production. The holder of the exploitation concession must also acquire rights to use the land from the surface owner and could be subject to significant delays in obtaining the consents of local authorities or satisfying other governmental requirements prior to obtaining an exploitation concession.
We believe all material concession terms have been satisfied to date.
Existing Project Areas
Fences Project Area
The Fences project area consists of four oil and gas exploration concessions controlled by PGNiG. Three producing fields (Radlin, Kleka, and Kaleje) lie within the concession boundaries, but are excluded from the Fences area in which we participate. The Fences concessions have expiration dates ranging from August 2012 to July 2015. The total joint remaining work commitment, which must be satisfied by us and PGNiG according to our respective interests, includes: acquiring 50 kilometers of 2-D seismic data, acquiring 180 square kilometers of 3-D seismic data, and drilling two wells.
Wilga/Block 255 Project Area
The Wilga project area consists of a single oil and gas exploration concession held by us that expires in August 2012. The remaining period carries a work commitment of 65 kilometers of 2-D seismic data and optional drilling of up to three wells. We currently plan to shoot the required seismic data and apply for an extension before the expiration date of the concession.
Warsaw South Project Area
This project area is adjacent to Block 255 and consists of four exploration concessions with expiration dates ranging from September 2012 to July 2013. We currently plan to meet all concession requirements and apply for extensions as needed before the various expiration dates or relinquish certain parts of this Project area. The total work commitment for the four concessions is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 450 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data, 325 kilometers of which have already been completed; Phase III - three years: drilling four wells one of which has been completed.
Block 287 Project Area
The Block 287 project area consists of a single oil and gas exploration concession held by us. The concession expires in December 2012. Work commitment includes reentering and producing the Grabowka gas field; recompletion of one out of three wells was completed and production began in 2009. As of the date of this report, we were in the process of preparing to recomplete a second well and have plans to recomplete the third well before year-end 2012.
Northwest Project Area
The Northwest project area consists of four oil and gas exploration concessions granted at various times in 2006, 2007, and 2008, with expiration dates ranging from October 2012 through September 2014. The total work commitment for the four concessions is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - three years: acquiring 620 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data; Phase III - two years: drilling four wells. Presently, 400 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data have been completed and part of the drilling commitment was satisfied during 2009 by drilling the Ostrowiec well. Prior to October 2012, we will either satisfy the remaining commitments or relinquish certain parts of this concession.
Kutno Project Area
The Kutno project area consists of three oil and gas exploration concessions. The first concession was granted in 2007 for a period of six years, and two new concessions were added in 2008 for a period of three years. The obligatory work commitment for the initial concession has been satisfied based on the work program in two phases: Phase I - two years: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - four and a half years: drilling one well, which is currently underway. The work commitments for the 2008 concessions are outlined in two phases: Phase 1 - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 200 kilometers of 2-D seismic data. We relinquished one of the 2008 concessions during 2011 and have an extension application pending for the second concession. We are evaluating the remaining 2008 concession, as it may be peripheral to the gas play in the main Kutno block.
Edge Project Area
The Edge project area consists of four oil and gas exploration concessions granted for the period of five years (2008-2013). The obligatory work commitment is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 350 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase III - two years: drilling four wells. Currently, 300 kilometers of new 2-D seismic data and 50 square kilometers of 3-D have been completed. We hope to begin drilling the first of these four wells later this year.
Block 246 Project Area
The Block 246 project area is adjacent to the Fences project area in the southwest and consists of a single concession granted for six years (2008-2014). The work commitment is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 120 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase III - three years: drilling one well. We currently plan to acquire 125 kilometers of 2-D seismic data later this year.
Block 229 Project Area
The Block 229 project area is adjacent to the Fences project area in the east and consists of two explorations concessions granted for the period of six years (2008-2014). The total work commitment is outlined in three phases: Phase I - one year: reprocessing and reinterpretation of existing data; Phase II - two years: acquiring 300 kilometers of 2-D seismic data; Phase III - three years: drilling two wells.
As of December 31, 2011, all required usufruct/concession payments had been made for each of the above project areas.
Government Regulation
Poland
Our activities in Poland are subject to political, economic, and other uncertainties, including the adoption of new laws, regulations, or administrative policies that may adversely affect us or the terms of our exploration or production rights; political instability and changes in government or public or administrative policies; export and transportation tariffs and local and national taxes; foreign exchange and currency restrictions and fluctuations; repatriation limitations; inflation; environmental regulations; and other matters. These operations in Poland are subject to the Geological and Mining Law dated as of February 4, 1994 (as amended), and the Environment Protection Law dated as of April 27, 2001 (as amended), which are the current primary statutes governing environmental protection. Agreements with the government of Poland respecting our exploration and production areas create certain standards to be met regarding environmental protection. Participants in oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities generally are required to: (1) adhere to good international petroleum industry practices, including practices relating to the protection of the environment; and (2) prepare and submit geological work plans, with specific attention to environmental matters, to the appropriate agency of state geological administration for its approval prior to engaging in field operations such as seismic data acquisition, exploratory drilling, and field-wide development. Poland’s regulatory framework respecting environmental protection is not as fully developed and detailed as that which exists in the United States. We intend to conduct our operations in Poland in accordance with good international petroleum industry practices and, as they continue to develop, Polish requirements.
There appears to be some political and administrative interest in Poland in reviewing and potentially altering the current natural resources regulatory scheme that has been in place for some years. Such interest appears to focus on governmental policies respecting granting hydrocarbon exploration and production rights, determining hydrocarbon sales prices, taxing production, and other matters. New policies, if adopted, may result in a more openly competitive process for obtaining exploration concessions and retaining rights to discovered hydrocarbons, increased production taxes, requiring governmental concessions for transporting and marketing gas, mandating governmental equity participation in hydrocarbon firms, more market-based hydrocarbon pricing, releasing exploration data and similar matters, all or any one of which could increase our costs and reduce our expansion opportunities.
United States
State and Local Regulation of Drilling and Production
Our U.S. exploration and production operations are subject to various types of federal, state, and local regulation. Such regulation includes requiring permits for the drilling of wells, maintaining bonding requirements in order to drill or operate wells and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled, and the plugging and abandoning of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units and the density of wells that may be drilled and the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties. In this regard, some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas, and impose certain requirements regarding the ratability of production.
Our oil production is affected to some degree by state regulations. States in which we operate have statutory provisions regulating the production and sale of oil and gas, including provisions regarding deliverability. Such statutes and related regulations are generally intended to prevent waste of oil and gas and to protect correlative rights to produce oil and gas between owners of a common reservoir. Certain state regulatory authorities also regulate the amount of oil and gas produced by assigning allowable rates of production to each well or proration unit.
Environmental Regulations
Our operations are subject to stringent federal, state, and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to health and safety or the protection of the environment. These laws and regulations require the acquisition of a permit by operators before drilling commences; mandate the use of specific procedures and facilities in handling specific substances and restrict the types, quantities, and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands, and other protected areas; and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. These laws and regulations increase the costs of drilling and operating wells.
Numerous governmental agencies, such as the EPA, issue regulations to implement and enforce these laws, which often require difficult and costly compliance measures. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of substantial administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, as well as the issuance of injunctions limiting or prohibiting our activities. In addition, some laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for environmental contamination, which could result in liability for environmental damages and cleanup costs without regard to negligence or fault on our part.
Environmental regulatory programs typically regulate the permitting, construction, and operations of a facility. Many factors, including public perception, can materially impact the ability to secure an environmental construction or operation permit. Once operational, enforcement measures can include significant civil penalties for regulatory violations regardless of intent. Under appropriate circumstances, an administrative agency can issue a cease-and-desist order to terminate operations. New programs and changes in existing programs are routinely proposed, considered, and in some cases adopted, which both complicate compliance and potentially make it more expensive. Environmental laws and regulations have been subject to frequent changes over the years, and the imposition of more stringent requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, also known as the “Superfund” law, and comparable state laws impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons that are considered to be responsible for the release of a “hazardous substance” into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources, and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, companies that incur liability frequently confront additional claims because it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment.
The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and regulations promulgated thereunder govern the generation, storage, transfer, and disposal of hazardous wastes. RCRA, however, excludes from the definition of hazardous wastes “drilling fluids, produced waters, and other wastes associated with the exploration, development, or production of crude oil, gas, or geothermal energy.” Because of this exclusion, many of our operations are exempt from RCRA regulation. However, these wastes may be regulated by the EPA or state agencies as nonhazardous wastes as long as these wastes are not commingled with regulated hazardous wastes. Moreover, in the ordinary course of our operations, wastes generated in connection with our exploration and production activities may be regulated as hazardous waste under RCRA or hazardous substances under CERCLA.
Our operations are also subject to the federal Clean Water Act and analogous state laws. The Clean Water Act regulates discharges of wastewater, oil, and other pollutants to surface water bodies, such as lakes, rivers, wetlands, and streams. Failure to obtain permits for such discharges could result in civil and criminal penalties, orders to cease such discharges, and costs to remediate and pay natural resources damages. These laws also require the preparation and implementation of spill prevention, control, and countermeasure plans in connection with on-site storage of significant quantities of oil. In June 2011, an oil leak occurred at our Southwest Cut Bank Sand Unit (SWCBSU) in Montana. We spent approximately $321,000 in completing cleanup, mitigation, and restoration pursuant to an approved plan in cooperation with the Blackfeet Tribe and the EPA. Although we believe that we have satisfactorily completed the cleanup according to the specifications provided by the Blackfeet Tribe and the EPA, we cannot assure that the leak will not result in additional costs or sanctions.
The federal Safe Drinking Water Act (SWDA), the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program promulgated under the SWDA, and state programs regulate the drilling and operation of salt water disposal wells. The EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others administration is delegated to the state. Permits must be obtained before drilling salt water disposal wells, and casing integrity monitoring must be conducted periodically to ensure the casing is not leaking saltwater to groundwater. Contamination of groundwater by oil and natural gas drilling, production, and related operations may result in fines, penalties, and remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SWDA and state laws. In addition, third-party claims may be filed by landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages, and bodily injury. See discussion of hydraulic fracturing below.
The federal Clean Air Act and comparable state laws regulate air emissions of various pollutants through permitting programs and other requirements. In addition, the EPA has developed and continues to develop stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil, and criminal penalties for noncompliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal Clean Air Act and associated state laws and regulations. Our operations, or the operations of service companies engaged by us, in certain circumstances and locations, may be subject to permits and restrictions under these statutes for emissions of air pollutants. In addition, the EPA has indicated that in 2012 it may revise its national emissions standards for hazardous air pollutants for crude oil and natural gas production and gas transmission and storage, as well as its new source performance standards for oil and gas production.
Oil and natural gas exploration and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental Policy Act, or NEPA. NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of the Interior, to evaluate major agency actions that have the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will prepare an Environmental Assessment that assesses the potential direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that may be made available for public review and comment. All of our current and proposed exploration and production activities on federal lands, including activities of our joint venture to explore the Alberta Bakken and Three Forks shale formations in Montana, require governmental permits that are subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the potential to delay the development of oil and natural gas projects.
Various state and federal statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitat, migratory birds, wetlands, and natural resources. These statutes include the Endangered Species Act, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the Clean Water Act, and CERCLA. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development. Where the taking of, harm, or damage to a species, wetlands, habitat, or natural resources occurs or may occur, governmental entities or at times private parties may act to prevent oil and gas exploration activities or seek damages, and in some cases criminal penalties, for harm to a species, wetlands, habitat, or natural resources resulting from drilling, construction, or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances, or other regulated materials.
We are subject to federal and state hazard communications and community right-to-know statutes and regulations. These regulations govern recordkeeping and reporting of the use and release of hazardous substances, including the federal Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act.
Stricter standards in environmental legislation may be imposed on the oil and gas industry in the future, such as proposals made in Congress and at the state level from time to time, that would reclassify certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes as “hazardous wastes” and make the reclassified wastes subject to more stringent and costly handling, disposal, and cleanup requirements. The impact of any such changes, however, would not likely be any more burdensome to us than to any other similarly situated company involved in oil and gas exploration and production.
We believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with such laws, rules, and regulations and that continued compliance will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. Furthermore, we do not believe that we are affected in a significantly different manner by these laws and regulations than our competitors in the oil and gas industry.
Federal and Indian Leases
A substantial part of our producing properties in Montana as well as the areas in which our joint venture is exploring the Alberta Bakken and Three Forks shale formations consist of oil and gas leases issued by the Bureau of Land Management or by the Blackfeet Tribe under the supervision of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Our activities on these properties must comply with rules and orders that regulate aspects of the oil and gas industry, including drilling and operating on leased land and the calculation and payment of royalties to the federal government or the governing Indian nation. Our operations on Indian lands must also comply with applicable requirements of the governing body of the tribe involved including, in some instances, the employment of tribal members. We believe we are currently in full compliance with all material provisions of such regulations.
Safety and Health Regulations
In all of our field activities, particularly our oilfield services segment, we are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, commonly referred to as OSHA, and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. In addition, the OSHA hazard communication standard requires that information be maintained about hazardous materials used or produced in operations and that this information be provided to employees, state and local government authorities, and the public. Currently, we do not foresee expending material amounts to comply with these occupational safety and health laws and regulations. However, since such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we are unable to predict the future effect of these laws and regulations.
Hydraulic Fracturing
During 2012, we plan to hydraulically fracture three separate intervals encountering approximately 480 meters of relatively tight Rotliegend sandstone in the Plawce well in Poland as well as a lateral extension in one of two wells we drilled in 2011 in Montana. Hydraulic fracturing is a process in the completion or reworking of certain oil and natural gas wells whereby water, sand, and chemicals are injected under pressure into subsurface formations to stimulate natural gas and, to a lesser extent, oil production.
If our hydraulic fracturing tests warrant, we expect that additional wells in the Plawce area in Poland as well as substantially all of the Montana horizontal wells that we participate in will be completed using hydraulic fracturing techniques. Although detailed plans for the possible fracturing have not been finalized, we expect to use industry-standard, long-established third-party service providers with specialized experience and equipment in hydraulic fracturing. Prior to initiating a lateral to an existing well or drilling a new well that might result in a lateral extension, we will include in the planning and budgetary process all costs associated with the fracture treatment. The costs of a well vary based on the depth to which it will be drilled, its horizontal length, and the completion technique to be used, which will include the added expenditure for the fracture treatment, as well as anticipated environmental and safety considerations.
Because we contract with industry-standard, long-established third-party service providers for all drilling, casing, and cementing services, we depend upon their industry expertise, safety processes, and best practices for conducting those operations. Our joint venture partners, advisers, and third-party service providers have significant, long-term experience with the engineering required to determine where and how a well should be drilled and whether the well should be hydraulically fractured as part of the completion process. Accordingly, we believe that we will be able to determine whether our third-party service providers are using proper drilling and completion techniques. Nevertheless, we will rely on them, in the case of fracturing services, to:
·
instantaneously monitor in real-time the rate and pressure of the fracturing treatment for any abrupt change in rate or pressure;
·
evaluate the environmental impact of additives to the hydraulic fracturing fluid;
·
minimize the use of water during the fracturing process; and
·
dispose of any produced water in a manner that avoids any impact on other resources and is in full compliance with all federal, state, and local governmental regulations.
We and our joint venture partners will rely fully on our third-party service providers to establish and carry out procedures to cope with any negative environmental impact that could occur in the event of a spill or leak in connection with their hydraulic fracturing services. The third-party service providers are typically responsible for costs arising out of any surface spillage, mishandling of fluids, or leakage from their equipment, including chemical additives. We may engage third-party contractors to provide hydraulic fracturing services pursuant to service orders on a job-by-job basis. Some such service orders limit the liability of these contractors. Hydraulic fracturing operations can result in surface spillage or, in rare cases, the underground migration of fracturing fluids. Any such spillage or migration could result in litigation, government fines and penalties, or remediation or restoration obligations. Our current insurance policies provide some coverage for losses arising out of our hydraulic fracturing operations. However, these policies may not cover fines, penalties, or costs and expenses related to government-mandated cleanup activities, and total losses related to a spill or migration could exceed our per occurrence or aggregate policy limits. Any losses due to hydraulic fracturing that are not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.
The specific chemical composition of the fluids used by the third-party service providers in hydraulic fracturing operations is expected to vary by project and by provider; however, we expect that the chemical composition of such fluids will meet industry standards and will be used in a manner that conforms to all relevant federal, state, and local rules and regulations. As discussed below, our future hydraulic fracturing operations in Montana will be subject to new laws enacted during 2011 requiring specific permitting for proposed hydraulic fracturing, including the disclosure of treatment procedures and the chemical and other additives to be used.
In order to prevent the underground migration of fracture fluids, we, and we expect our joint venture partners and third-party service providers to, follow industry-standard practices in respect of casing, cementing, and testing to ensure good physical isolation of the fractured interval from other sections of the well. We will attempt to ensure that well construction processes and procedures conform to all relevant federal, state, and local rules and regulations. We believe that the large thickness of rock formations between the fractured interval and any potable water sources will minimize the risk of underground migration of fracture fluids. In addition, we expect that surface casing will be set below the deepest known depth of all subsurface potable water, which is the depth sufficient to protect fresh water zones as determined by regulatory agencies, and the well casing will be cemented to create a permanent isolating barrier between the casing pipe and surrounding geological formations. We believe these aspects of well design will practicably eliminate a pathway for underground migration of the fracturing fluid to contact any fresh or potable water aquifers during the hydraulic fracturing operations. We expect that third-party fracturing contractor employees will be trained in the safe handling of all fracturing fluids, chemical additives, and materials and will be required to wear appropriate protective clothing and eye and foot wear. Other protective measures may include safety briefings prior to conducting fracturing operations, testing of pumping equipment and surface lines to pressures exceeding expected maximum fracture treating pressures prior to conducting fracturing operations, detailed fracture treating process checklists used by our fracturing contractors, and guidelines for the disposal of excess fracturing fluids.
Applicable laws typically impose responsibility on owners and operators for any costs resulting from underground migration of fracture fluids, and we are not fully insured against this risk. The occurrence of a significant event resulting from the underground migration of fracture fluids or surface spillage, mishandling, or leakage of fracture fluids could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. To date, there have been no such incidents, and the members of our management team have not encountered such an incident in their long-term experience in this industry.
In 2010, the EPA announced that it would be conducting a study on the environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing. The study is expected to be completed in 2012. Additional disclosure requirements could result in increased regulation, operational delays, and increased operating costs that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing.
In 2011, Montana enacted regulations that require operators to disclose information about hydraulic fracturing fluid on a well-by-well basis. Each well permit application is required to include the estimated volume of treatment to be used, the principal components or chemicals to be used, the estimated amount or volume of the principal components to be used, the estimated weight or volume of inert substances such as proppants, and the maximum anticipated treating pressure or the well specifications demonstrating that the well is appropriately constructed for the proposed stimulation. The requirement to disclose this information in the drilling permit application does not apply for wildcat or exploratory wells or when the operator is unable to determine that it will need to conduct hydraulic fracturing as part of well completion. For those wells to be fractured, the operator must provide the same information in a notice of intent to fracture that is provided at least 48 hours in advance of the fracturing operation. Additional details of the fracturing treatment must be reported after the treatment is completed.
In Poland, regulatory authorities have announced that if an exploration concession does not specifically cover horizontal drilling and fracturing, the operator must obtain a concession amendment before proceeding with such operations. Such an amendment must be preceded by an environmental impact assessment, the scope of which is largely dependent upon the discretion of the relevant environmental authority, typically at the municipality level, with participation of regional environmental authorities. This process would likely require disclosure of the pressure and volumes of treatment fluids as well as the chemicals and other treatment components used.
For information regarding existing and proposed governmental regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing and related environmental matters, please read “Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Business-Federal, state, and Polish legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could make it more difficult or costly for us to explore and produce from our properties.”
Title to Properties
We rely on sovereign ownership of exploration rights and mineral interests by the Polish government in connection with our activities in Poland and have not conducted and do not plan to conduct any independent title examination. We regularly consult with our Polish legal counsel when doing business in Poland.
Nearly all of our United States interests are held under leases from third parties. We typically obtain a title opinion concerning such properties prior to the commencement of drilling operations. We have obtained such title opinions or other third-party review on all of our producing properties, and we believe that we have satisfactory title to all such properties sufficient to meet standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. Our United States properties are subject to typical burdens, including customary royalty interests and liens for current taxes, but we have concluded that such burdens do not materially interfere with our activities on such properties. Further, we believe the economic effects of such burdens have been appropriately reflected in our carrying cost of such properties and reserve estimates. Title investigation before the acquisition of undeveloped properties is less thorough than that conducted prior to drilling, as is standard practice in the industry.
Oil and Gas Terms
The following terms have the indicated meaning when used in this report:
“Bbl” means oilfield barrel.
“Bcf” means billion cubic feet of natural gas.
“Bcfe” means billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
“BTU” means British thermal unit.
“Ca1” and “Ca2” refers to specific calcium-rich geological formations, typically a dolomitic reef.
“Deterministic” means a method of estimating reserves in which a simple value for each parameter of geoscience, engineering, or economic data in the reserves calculation is used in the reserves estimation.
“Development well” means a well drilled within the proved area of a gas or oil reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive.
“Exploratory well” means a well drilled to find and produce gas or oil in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of gas or oil in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
“Field” means an area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic conditions.
“Fracturing” or “Fracking” means injecting fluids or slurry under sufficient pressure and rate to fracture the formation, leaving proppants that keep the fractures open to serve as a pathway for gas or oil to flow to the well bore.
“Gross” acres and “gross” wells mean the total number of acres or wells, as the case may be, in which an interest is owned, either directly or through a subsidiary or other enterprise in which we have an interest.
“Horizon” means an underground geological formation that is the portion of the larger formation that has sufficient porosity and permeability to constitute a reservoir.
“MBbls” means thousand oilfield barrels.
“Mcf” means thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
“Mcfe” means thousand cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
“MMcf” means million cubic feet of natural gas.
“MMcfd” means million cubic feet of natural gas per day.
“MMcfe” means million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
“MMcfed” means million cubic feet of natural gas equivalent using a ratio of one barrel of oil to 6,000 cubic feet of natural gas per day.
“Net” means, when referring to wells or acres, the fractional ownership interests held by us, either directly or through a subsidiary or other Polish enterprise in which we have an interest, multiplied by the gross wells or acres.
“P50 reserves” means proved reserves plus probable reserves.
“Play” means the activities associated with oil and gas exploration, typically in its early stages, in an area generally believed to contain common reservoir, seal, source, or trapping features.
“Probabilistic” means a method of estimating reserves using the full range of values that could reasonably occur for each unknown from the geoscience and engineering data to generate a full range of possible outcomes and their associated probabilities of occurrence.
“Probable reserves” means those reserves determined by probabilistic methods that are less certain than proved reserves but which, together with proved reserves, are as likely as not to be recovered.
“Proved reserves” means the estimated quantities of crude oil, gas and gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. “Proved reserves” may be developed or undeveloped.
“PV-10 Value” means the estimated future net revenue to be generated from the production of proved or probable reserves discounted to present value using an annual discount rate of 10%, the Standardized Measure of Future Net Cash Flows (“SMOG”). These amounts are calculated net of estimated production costs, future development costs, and future income taxes, using prices and costs determined using guidelines established by the SEC, without escalation and without giving effect to non-property-related expenses, such general and administrative costs, debt service, and depreciation, depletion, and amortization.
“Reservoir” means a porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of producible oil and/or gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and that is distinct and separate from other reservoirs.
“Usufruct” means the Polish equivalent of a U.S. oil and gas lease.
ITEM 3.