ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Productive Wells and Drilling Activity
The following table summarizes the Company's developed acreage and productive wells at December 31, 2001. "Gross" refers to the total acres or wells in which the Company has a working interest, and "net" refers to gross acres or wells multiplied by the percentage working interest owned by the Company.
Developed Acreage (1)
Gross Net -------- ------- United States 1,387 1,003 Colombia (2) 3,706 384 -------- ------- 5,093 1,387 ======== =======
Productive Wells (3) Oil Gas --------------------- --------------------- Gross Net Gross Net ------- ------ ------- ------
United States 7 4.93 3 2.30 Colombia 14 1.45 - - ------- ------ ------- ------ 21 6.38 3 2.30 ======= ====== ======= ======
(1) Developed acreage is acreage assignable to productive wells. (2) Excludes Aporte Putumayo acreage pending abandonment operations. (3) Productive wells represent producing wells and wells capable of producing.
During the period from January 1, 1999 through December 31, 2001, the Company did not drill nor participate in the drilling of any development or exploratory wells.
Undeveloped Acreage
The Company's undeveloped acreage in Colombia is held pursuant to the Santana and Rio Magdalena contracts with the Colombian government. No further relinquishments are required for the Santana contract until the expiration of the contract in 2015. The Rio Magdalena contract may, by operation of its terms, require the relinquishment of certain portions of the undeveloped acreage in 2007, 2009 and 2011. See "-- Significant Properties."
The Company's undeveloped acreage in Papua New Guinea is held pursuant to PPL-206. See "-- Significant Properties."
The Company does not have an undeveloped acreage position in the United States because of the costs of maintaining such a position. Oil and gas leases in the United States generally can be acquired by the Company for specific prospects on reasonable terms either directly or through farmout arrangements.
The following table shows the undeveloped acreage held by the Company at December 31, 2001. Undeveloped acreage is acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
Undeveloped Acres ------------------------ Gross Net --------- ------
Colombia Santana 48,636 14,406 Rio Magdalena 144,609 14,991 Papua New Guinea 1,228,187 24,564 --------- ------ 1,421,432 53,961 ========= ======
Title to Properties
The Company has not performed a title examination for offshore U.S. leases in federal waters because title emanates from the United States government. Title examinations also are not performed in Colombia, where mineral title emanates from the national government. The Company believes that it generally has satisfactory title to all of its oil and gas properties. The Company's working interests are subject to customary royalty and overriding royalty interests generally created in connection with their acquisition, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens and minor liens, encumbrances, easements and restrictions. The Company believes that none of such burdens materially detracts from the value of such properties or its interest therein or will materially interfere with the use of the properties in the operation of the Company's business.
Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
See Supplementary Information Related to Oil and Gas Producing Activities in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information with respect to the Company's reserves and future net cash flows.
The Company will file with the Department of Energy (the "DOE") a statement with respect to the Company's estimate of proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2001, that is not the same as that included in the estimate of proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2001, as set forth in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" elsewhere herein. The information filed with the DOE includes the estimated proved reserves of the properties of which the Company is the operator, whereas the estimated proved reserves contained in Item 8 hereof include only the Company's percentage share of the estimated proved reserves of all properties in which the Company has an interest.
Production, Sales Prices and Costs
The following table summarizes the Company's oil production in thousands of barrels and natural gas production in millions of cubic feet for the years indicated:
Year ended December 31, ----------------------------------
2001 2000 1999 ------ ------ ------
Oil (1) United States 33 49 57 Colombia 61 157 365
Gas United States 24 25 53 Colombia - - -
(1) Includes crude oil and condensate.
The average sales price per barrel of oil and per thousand cubic feet ("MCF") of gas produced by the Company and the average production (lifting) cost per dollar of oil and gas revenue and per barrel of oil equivalent (6 MCF: 1 barrel) were as follows for the years indicated:
(1) All amounts are stated in United States dollars. (2) Includes crude oil and condensate.
Significant Properties
Colombia. -------- The Company's Colombian properties currently consist of three contracts, two of which are located in the Putumayo Basin in southwestern Colombia along the eastern front of the eastern cordillera of the Andes Mountains. The Rio Magdalena contract, covering approximately 145,000 acres, is located in central Colombia in the prolific Upper Magdalena region. The Company's interest in each of the contracts is subject to certain reversionary interests in favor of Ecopetrol as described below. Argosy, as operator of the properties, carries out the program of operations for the three concessions. The program is determined by Argosy and approved by Ecopetrol. The Santana contract, which now consists of approximately 52,000 acres and contains 14 productive wells, has been in effect since 1987 and is the focus of the Company's current production activities. Argosy expects to sign a fourth contract, the Guayuyaco contract, in April 2002. The Guayuyaco and Rio Magdalena contracts are the focus of the Company's exploration activities.
The Aporte Putumayo block, which consisted of approximately 77,000 acres and contains three shut-in wells, produced from 1976 to 1995. The block has been relinquished, however Argosy remains obligated for abandonment and restoration operations on the old wells in the block.
Production from the Santana concession is sold pursuant to a sales contract with Ecopetrol. The contract provides that at least 25% of the sales proceeds will be paid in Colombian pesos. As a result of certain currency restrictions, pesos resulting from these payments must generally remain in Colombia and are used by the Company to pay local expenses.
The Company's pretax income from Colombian sources, as defined under Colombian law, is subject to Colombian income taxes at a statutory rate of 35%, although a "presumptive" minimum income tax based on net assets, as defined under Colombian law, may apply in years of little or no net income. The Company's income after Colombian income taxes is subject to a Colombian remittance tax that accrues at a rate of 7%. Payment of the remittance tax may be deferred under certain circumstances if the Company reinvests such income in Colombia.
Santana Contract. The Santana block is held pursuant to a "risk-sharing" ---------------- contract for which Ecopetrol has the option to participate on the basis of a 30% working interest in exploration activities in the contract area. If a commercial field is discovered, Ecopetrol's working interest increases to 50% and the costs theretofore incurred and attributable to the 20% working interest differential will be recouped by Argosy from Ecopetrol's share of production on a well by well basis. The risk-sharing contract provides that, when 7 million barrels of cumulative production from
the concession have been attained, Ecopetrol's revenue interest and share of operating costs increases to 65% but it remains obligated for only 50% of capital expenditures. In June 1996, the 7 million barrel threshold was reached. At that time, Argosy's revenue interest in the contract declined from 40% to 28% and its share of operating expenses declined from 50% to 35%.
The Santana block is divided by the Caqueta River. Two fields located south of the river, the Toroyaco and Linda fields, were declared commercial by Ecopetrol and commenced production in 1992. There are currently four producing wells in the Toroyaco field and four producing wells in the Linda field. During 1995, a 3-D seismic survey covering the Toroyaco and Linda fields was completed. Based on this survey, one development well was drilled in each field during 1996 and one additional development well was drilled in the Linda field in 1997. No further drilling is anticipated for these fields.
The Company constructed a 42-kilometer pipeline (the "Uchupayaco Pipeline") which was completed and commenced operations during 1994 to transport oil production from the Toroyaco and Linda fields to the Trans-Andean Pipeline owned by Ecopetrol, through which the Company's production is transported to the port of Tumaco on the Pacific coast of Colombia.
Two additional fields, the Mary and Miraflor fields, were discovered north of the Caqueta River and were declared commercial by Ecopetrol during 1993. Except for oil produced during production tests of wells located in these fields, the production was shut-in until the first quarter of 1995 when construction of a pipeline was completed and commercial production began. Completion of this pipeline provided the Company with direct pipeline access from all of its fields to the Pacific coast port of Tumaco. There are currently four producing wells in the Mary field and one producing well in the Miraflor field. A 3-D seismic survey was completed over the Mary and Miraflor fields during early 1997. Although the survey confirmed that additional development drilling is not required for the Miraflor field, it did confirm the presence of several prospects and leads previously identified from two-dimensional seismic data. These prospects and leads are now covered by the Guayuyaco contract described below.
Argosy has fulfilled all the exploration obligations required by the Santana risk-sharing contract. The current work program contemplates the recompletion of certain existing wells to increase production therefrom.
The Santana contract has a term of 28 years and expires in 2015. In 1993, the Company relinquished 50% of the original Santana area in accordance with the terms of the contract. In July 1995, an additional 25% of the original contract area was relinquished. A final relinquishment was made in 1997 such that all remaining contract areas except for those areas within five kilometers of a commercial field were relinquished.
All oil produced from the Santana contract area is sold to Ecopetrol pursuant to the terms of the applicable sales contract with Ecopetrol. The contracts applicable to periods prior to December 1, 2001 generally provided that if Ecopetrol exported the oil, the price paid was the export price received by Ecopetrol, adjusted for quality differences, less a marketing fee of $0.165 per barrel. If Ecopetrol did not export the oil, the price paid was based on the price received from Ecopetrol's Cartagena refinery, adjusted for quality differences, less Ecopetrol's cost to transport the crude to Cartagena and a marketing fee of $0.165 per barrel.
Effective December 1, 2001, Argosy entered into a new sales contract with Ecopetrol whereby the price paid, adjusted for quality differences, for each barrel of oil sold is determined based on the monthly average of West Texas Intermediate - Cushing ("WTI") less a variable differential as follows:
Average WTI ("US$/bbl.") Contract Sales Price - ------------------------ --------------------
$15 or less Ave. WTI less $4.38 per bbl. $15.01 to $20.00 Ave. WTI less $4.88 per bbl. $20.01 to $25.00 Ave. WTI less $5.38 per bbl. $25.01 to $30.00 Ave. WTI less $6.38 per bbl. Over $30 Ave. WTI less $7.38 per bbl.
In 2001, Ecopetrol exported the crude each month through October. November and December crude sales were sent to Ecopetrol's Cartagena refinery. The 2001 crude sales price averaged $20.67 per barrel.
Rio Magdalena Contract. The Rio Magdalena contract, acquired by ---------------------- Argosy in December 2001, is an "association" contract whereunder Argosy and a 50% co-owner fulfill all exploration obligations without Ecopetrol's participation until a field is declared commercial by Ecopetrol, whereupon Ecopetrol will earn an initial 30% share in the field and must reimburse its 30% share of successful exploratory wells, seismic and stratigraphic wells, dry step-out exploratory wells and development wells and facilities through its 30% share of production. The contract provides that Ecopetrol's working interest will be 30% until aggregate oil production from the contract area reaches 60 million barrels. For production in excess of 60 million barrels, Ecopetrol's interest will increase from 30% to 65% based on a measure of profitability as defined in the contract.
The contract obligations of the Rio Magdalena contract require Argosy and its co-owner to reprocess 40 kilometers of 2D seismic during the initial 18-month exploration phase of the contract. In the following 12-month exploration phase, Argosy and its co-owner are obligated to perform one of the following: (i) a seismic survey to acquire 30 kilometers of 3D seismic; (ii) a seismic survey to acquire 2D seismic at a cost equivalent to the 3D program; or (iii) drill an exploratory well. If Argosy and its co-owner decide to proceed into the third phase of the contract, the drilling of an exploratory well would be required. If a field is discovered, the exploitation period is 22 years in the case of an oil discovery and 30 years, extendable to 40 years under certain circumstances, in the case of a natural gas discovery. Argosy has not yet completed the seismic reprocessing required in the first phase of the contract. Such reprocessing is currently underway.
Guayuyaco Contract. The Guayuyaco contract, expected to be signed by ------------------ Argosy in April 2002, will be an "association" contract that overlays the undeveloped acreage contained within the Santana contract area. Under the proposed Guayuyaco contract, Argosy will fulfill all exploration obligations without Ecopetrol's participation until a field is declared commercial by Ecopetrol, whereupon Ecopetrol will earn an initial 30% share in the field and must reimburse its 30% share of direct exploration costs, as defined in the contract, through payment of 50% of its 30% share of production. The proposed contract provides that Ecopetrol's working interest will be 30% until aggregate oil production from the contract area reaches 60 million barrels. For production in excess of 60 million barrels, Ecopetrol's interest will increase from 30% to 65% based on a measure of profitability as defined in the contract.
The proposed obligations of the Guayuyaco contract will require Argosy to drill one exploratory well during the initial 12-month exploration phase of the contract. Upon completion of the initial exploration phase, Argosy may relinquish the contract or proceed to the following 18-month exploration phase, whereunder Argosy will be obligated to drill a second exploratory well. The contract will terminate following the second phase if, not having discovered a field, Argosy does not request an extension to the contract. Upon request by Argosy, Ecopetrol may extend the contract an additional three years obligating Argosy to drill one exploration well in each of the three years of the extension. If a field is discovered, the exploitation period is 22 years in the case of an oil discovery and 30 years in the case of a natural gas discovery. Argosy is continuing its efforts to secure an industry partner to farm-in to this acreage and expects to drill the first exploratory well during the second quarter of 2003.
Failure by Argosy to meet the obligations under the proposed contract will result in the loss of the proposed contract terms. The existing Santana production and acreage will not be affected. Failure by the Company to fund its share of Argosy's obligations under the proposed contract, assuming Argosy funds the obligation, could result in a decrease in the Company's ownership interest in Argosy.
United States. ------------- The Company's remaining oil and gas properties in the United States are located in the Gulf of Mexico offshore Louisiana at Breton Sound 31 field. The Breton Sound 31 field is operated by the Company.
Breton Sound Block 31 is located 20 miles offshore Louisiana in 16 feet of water. The field is approximately 55 miles southeast of New Orleans on state leases. During 2001, five wells averaged 90 barrels of oil per day and 65 MCF of gas per day, net to the Company's interest, from three sands completed between 3,850 feet and 6,500 feet. The Company's working interests in the leases comprising the field vary from 64% to 90%.
The interpretation of 3-D seismic data in 1996 identified two deep and several shallow prospects in the Breton Sound Block 31 field.
On June 1, 2000, the Company signed a farmout agreement covering the deep prospects. The farmee was unable to conclude a drilling arrangement prior to June 30, 2001, the date to which the contract had been extended.
During the latter part of 2001, an offset operator drilled a successful exploratory well approximately 4,000 feet from the eastern boundary of the Company's Breton Sound acreage. Management of the Company is currently in discussions with such operator, and other interested parties, with a view towards negotiating an arrangement to explore the Company's Breton Sound prospects.
Papua New Guinea. ---------------- The area covered by PPL-206 is located in the Western, Gulf and Southern Highland Provinces of Papua New Guinea. The northern section of the area is in a mountainous tropical rain forest while the southern section of the area is predominantly lowlands, jungle and coastal swamps. In 1986 oil was discovered approximately 20 kilometers from the northern border of PPL-206 in an adjoining license area and in 1999 gas was discovered approximately 20 kilometers southwest of the western border.
In accordance with the terms of the agreement governing PPL-206, the parties have performed surface geological work and completed seismic programs during 1998 and 2000. The 2000 program (the "Okoni Program") was followed by strike line acquisition in the first quarter of 2001 to determine the drilling location for the Bosavi exploratory well. Site preparation is currently underway and drilling of the Bosavi well is scheduled to begin in August 2002.
Pursuant to the Company's 2% carried working interest, the Company is not obligated to pay any of the costs relative to the work presently underway nor is it obligated to pay any of the costs of drilling, testing or completing the exploratory well.
Under the provisions of PPL-206 the terms of any oil and gas development are set forth in a Petroleum Agreement with the Government of Papua New Guinea. The Petroleum Agreement provides that the operator must carry out an appraisal program after a discovery to determine whether the discovery is of commercial interest. If the appraisal is not carried out or the discovery is not of commercial interest, the license may be forfeited. If the discovery is of commercial interest, the operator must apply for a Petroleum Development License. The Government retains a royalty on production equal to 1.25% of the wellhead value of the petroleum and, at its election, may acquire up to a 22.5% interest in the petroleum development after recoupment by the operator of the project costs attributable thereto out of production. In addition, income from petroleum operations is subject to a Petroleum Income Tax at the rate of 50% of net income, which is defined as gross revenue less royalties, allowances for depreciation, interest deductions, operating costs and previous tax losses carried forward. An Additional Profits Tax of 50% of cash flow (after deducting ordinary income tax payments) is also payable when the accumulated value of net cash flows becomes positive. For annual periods in which net cash flows are negative, the cumulative amount is carried forward and increased at an annual accumulation of 27%. The Additional Profits Tax is calculated separately for each Petroleum Development License. In calculating the applicable tax, interest expenses paid by Garnet PNG prior to the issuance of a Petroleum Development License and, thereafter, to the extent that Garnet PNG's debt to equity ratio exceeds two-to-one, are not deductible.
The Company leases corporate office space in Dallas, Texas containing approximately 5,100 square feet pursuant to a lease which expires in January 2007. The annual lease payments for these offices are approximately $94,000.
ITEM 3.