ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Productive Wells and Drilling Activity
The following table summarizes the Company's developed acreage and productive wells at December 31, 1996. "Gross" refers to the total acres or wells in which the Company has a working interest, and "net" refers to gross acres or wells multiplied by the percentage working interest owned by the Company.
(1) Developed acreage is acreage assignable to productive wells. (2) Productive wells represent producing wells and wells capable of producing. (3) Two of the oil wells and one of the gas wells are dually completed.
During the periods indicated, the Company drilled or participated in the drilling of the following development and exploratory wells.
In addition, at March 17, 1997, there was one gross (0.2 net) development well in progress in Colombia.
In the above table, a productive well is an exploratory or development well that is not a dry well. A dry well is an exploratory or a development well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in commercial quantities. A development well is a well drilled within the proved area of an oil and gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. An exploratory well is any well that is not a development well.
Undeveloped Acreage
The Company's undeveloped acreage in Colombia is held pursuant to concession agreements with the Colombian government. These agreements may, by operations of their terms, require the relinquishment of certain portions of the undeveloped acreage in 1997. See "-- Significant Properties."
The Company does not have an undeveloped acreage position in the United States because of the costs of maintaining such a position. Oil and gas leases in the United States generally can be acquired by the Company for specific prospects on reasonable terms either directly or through farmout arrangements.
The following table shows the undeveloped acreage held by the Company in Colombia at December 31, 1996. Undeveloped acreage is acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas, regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
Title to Properties
The Company has not performed a title examination for offshore U.S. leases in federal waters because title emanates from the United States government. Title examinations also are not performed in Colombia, where mineral title emanates from the national government. The Company believes that it generally has satisfactory title to all of its oil and gas properties. The Company's working interests are subject to customary royalty and overriding royalty interests generally created in connection with their acquisition, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens and minor liens, encumbrances, easements and restrictions. The Company believes that none of such burdens materially detracts from the value of such properties or its interest therein or will materially interfere with the use of the properties in the operation of the Company's business.
Federal Leases
The Company conducts a portion of its operations on federal oil and gas leases and therefore must comply with numerous additional regulatory restrictions, including certain nondiscrimination statutes. Certain of the Company's operations on federal leases must be conducted pursuant to appropriate permits or approvals issued by various federal agencies. Pursuant to certain federal leases, approval of certain operations must be obtained from one or more government agencies prior to the commencement of such operation. Federal leases are subject to extensive regulation. See "Item 1. Business -- Regulation."
Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
See Supplementary Information Related to Oil and Gas Producing Activities in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information with respect to the Company's reserves and future net cash flows.
The Company will file with the Department of Energy (the "DOE") a statement with respect to the Company's estimate of proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 1996, that is not the same as that included in the estimate of proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 1996, as set forth in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" elsewhere herein. The information filed with the DOE includes the estimated proved reserves of the properties of which the Company is the operator, whereas the estimated proved reserves contained in Item 8 hereof include only the Company's percentage share of the estimated proved reserves of all properties in which the Company has an interest.
Production, Sales Prices and Costs
The following table summarizes the Company's oil production in thousands of barrels and natural gas production in millions of cubic feet for the years indicated:
(1) Includes crude oil and condensate.
The average sales price per barrel of oil and per thousand cubic feet ("MCF") of gas produced by the Company and the average production (lifting) cost per dollar of oil and gas revenue and per barrel of oil equivalent (6 MCF: 1 barrel) were as follows for the years indicated:
(1) All amounts are stated in United States dollars. (2) Includes crude oil and condensate.
Significant Properties
Colombia. -------- The Company's Colombian properties consist of four concessions, all of which are located in the Putumayo Basin in southwestern Colombia along the eastern front of the eastern cordillera of the Andes Mountains. The Company has a 45% working interest in each of the concessions, which is subject to various reversionary interests in favor of Ecopetrol as described below. Argosy, as operator of the properties, carries out the program of operations for the four concessions. The program is determined, with consideration of the obligations contained in the concession agreements, by an operating committee comprised of two representatives from each of Argosy and Neo. The Aporte Putumayo concession, which consists of approximately 77,000 acres and contains three shutin wells, has been in effect since 1972 and is currently being abandoned. The Santana concession, which consists of approximately 86,000 acres and contains 12 producing wells, has been in effect since 1987. No wells have yet been drilled on the La Fragua or Yuruyaco concessions, which consist of approximately 32,000 acres and 39,000 acres, respectively. The La Fragua concession has been in effect since 1992, whereas the Yuruyaco concession was acquired in 1995. The Santana, La Fragua and Yuruyaco concessions are contiguous, while the Aporte Putumayo concession is approximately 50 kilometers to the southwest of the Santana concession.
Production from the concessions is sold pursuant to sales contracts with Ecopetrol. Although sales prices vary between concessions, the contracts generally provide that 25% of the sales proceeds will be paid in Colombian pesos. As a result of certain currency restrictions, pesos resulting from these payments must generally remain in Colombia and are used by the Company to pay local expenses.
Neo's pretax income from Colombian sources, as defined under Colombian law, is subject to Colombian income taxes at a statutory rate of 35% (37.5% prior to 1996), although a "presumptive" minimum income tax based on net assets, as defined under Colombian law, may apply in years of little or no net income. Neo's income after Colombian income taxes is subject to a Colombian remittance tax that accrues at a rate of 12% (10% for 1997 and 7% thereafter). Payment of the remittance tax may be deferred under certain
circumstances if Neo reinvests such income in Colombia. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere herein.
The Colombian government also imposes a production tax which averaged approximately $1.33 per barrel during 1996 and is equal to 7% of the oil price in effect through December 1997 for three of the four fields in the Santana concession. For the remaining field, the production tax is effective through 2000 at 7%, 5.5%, 4% and 2.5% of the oil price for 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively. Any new discoveries declared commercial by Ecopetrol will be exempt from the production tax.
Santana Concession. The Santana concession is subject to a "risk- ------------------ sharing" contract pursuant to which Ecopetrol has the option to participate on the basis of a 30% working interest in exploration activities in the concession. If a commercial field is discovered, Ecopetrol's working interest increases to 50% and the costs theretofore incurred and attributable to the 20% working interest differential will be recouped by the co-owners from Ecopetrol's share of production on a well by well basis. The risk-sharing contract provides that, when 7 million barrels of cumulative production from the concession have been attained, Ecopetrol's revenue interest and share of operating costs increases to 65% but it remains obligated for only 50% of capital expenditures. In mid-June 1996, the 7 million barrel threshold was reached. At that time, the Company's revenue interest in the concession declined from 18% to 12.6% and its share of operating expenses declined from 22.5% to 15.75%.
The Santana concession is divided by the Caqueta River. Two fields located south of the river, the Toroyaco and Linda fields, were declared commercial by Ecopetrol and commenced production in 1992. There are currently four producing wells in the Toroyaco field and three producing wells in the Linda field. During 1995, a 3-D seismic survey covering the Toroyaco and Linda fields was completed. Based on this survey, one development well was drilled in each field during 1996 and one additional development location for each field has been identified for drilling in 1997.
The Company and its co-owner ("Co-owners") constructed a 42-kilometer pipeline (the "Uchupayaco Pipeline") which was completed and commenced operations during 1994 to transport oil production from the Toroyaco and Linda fields to the Trans-Andean Pipeline owned by Ecopetrol, through which the Company's production is transported to the port of Tumaco on the Pacific coast of Colombia. The Uchupayaco Pipeline replaced a trucking operation that transported oil production from the fields to the Trans-Andean Pipeline.
Two additional fields, the Mary and Miraflor fields, were discovered north of the Caqueta River and were declared commercial by Ecopetrol during 1993. Except for oil produced during production tests of wells located in these fields, the production was shutin until the first quarter of 1995 when construction of a pipeline was completed and commercial production began. With the completion of this pipeline, the Co-owners have direct pipeline access from all four fields to the Pacific coast port of Tumaco. There are currently four producing wells in the Mary field and one producing well in the Miraflor field. A 3-D seismic survey has recently been completed over the Mary and Miraflor fields and such data is currently being interpreted. This survey is expected to define the limits of these fields, identify possible locations for additional development wells, and ascertain the prospectivity of areas adjacent to the Mary and Miraflor fields. At the present time, the Co-owners anticipate drilling at least one additional development well in the Miraflor field during the fourth quarter of 1997.
During 1996 the Co-owners drilled one exploratory well, the Palmera #1, on the Santana concession. The well encountered water-bearing sands in the principal zones of interest and was plugged and abandoned.
The Co-owners have fulfilled all the initial exploration obligations required by the Santana risk-sharing contract. The contract requires that the Co-owners submit work programs for approval by Ecopetrol for each of the next two years of the contract. The current work program contemplates the drilling of certain
development wells (one of which is currently in progress) and completing the above referenced 3-D seismic program.
In 1993, the Co-owners relinquished 50% of the original Santana concession area in accordance with the terms of the contract. In July 1995, an additional 25% of the original contract area was relinquished. A final relinquishment is required in 1997 such that all remaining contract areas except for those areas within five kilometers of a commercial field or an area under development must be relinquished.
Production from the Santana concession has been sold to Ecopetrol pursuant to a sales contract that became effective January 1, 1995 and was extended through January 31, 1997 (the "1996 Sales Contract"). Prices under the contract are determined differently depending on whether (in the discretion of Ecopetrol) the produced crude is exported. If the crude is exported, the price received by the Company is the export price less specified handling and commercialization charges and subject to an adjustment (specified in the contract) for the quality of the produced crude as compared with the overall pipeline blend at the point of export (the "Pipeline Blend Adjustment"). If the crude is not exported, the price received by the Company is the previous month's average posted price for Cano Limon crude less specified handling and transportation charges and subject to (i) the Pipeline Blend Adjustment and (ii) an adjustment for the quality of the overall pipeline blend at the point of sale as compared with the quality of Cano Limon crude (the "Cano Limon Adjustment"). Under the contract, the Cano Limon Adjustment is based on a comparative analysis performed by a specified independent engineer. That analysis, which was performed in March of 1996, determined that the Cano Limon Adjustment is a decrease of $0.56 per barrel. In 1996, Ecopetrol exported the crude each month, with the exception of November, and the sales price averaged $19.82 per barrel.
At December 31, 1996, the date as of which the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows applicable to the Company's proved oil and gas reserves was prepared, Ecopetrol was exporting the crude oil. Accordingly, for purposes of determining the standardized measure applicable to the Company's Colombian reserves, the Company used the export price of $22.60 per barrel (which does not include the Cano Limon adjustment).
If Ecopetrol had not been exporting the crude oil at December 31, 1996, the standardized measure applicable to the Company's Colombian reserves at December 31, 1996 would have been approximately $37.8 million rather than $38.7 million. Such decrease would not have resulted in a ceiling test write-down of the Company's Colombian oil and gas properties.
During February 1997, the Company entered into a new sales contract (the "1997 Sales Contract") with Ecopetrol that became effective February 1, 1997 and continues through December 31, 1997. The terms of the 1997 Sales Contract are similar to the 1996 Sales Contract.
La Fragua Concession. The La Fragua concession is subject to an -------------------- "association" contract whereunder the Co-owners fulfill all exploration obligations without Ecopetrol's participation until a field is declared commercial, as described above. The association contract also provides that Ecopetrol's working interest increases on a sliding scale from 50% to 70% as cumulative production from the concession increases from 60 million barrels to 150 million barrels.
The Co-owners have completed their seismic obligations for the first two years of the La Fragua concession and were obligated to acquire additional seismic data for the third year. The Co-owners have determined, however, that it was not technically justified to explore this concession further and, accordingly, requested and received from Ecopetrol a change of commitment that would allow the Co-owners to substitute certain exploratory expenditures within the Santana concession for the remaining seismic commitment on the La Fragua concession. The indigenous people of the new commitment area, however, have objected to the proposed exploratory work and it appears unlikely that the Co-owners will be able to comply with the new commitment. Management of the Company believes that the Co-owners have no further obligation with respect to this concession and, accordingly, have requested that Ecopetrol
allow the Co-owners to surrender the concession without further expenditure. Management of the Company believes that Ecopetrol will agree to such request, although there can be no assurance of that.
Yuruyaco Concession. The Yuruyaco concession, acquired by the Company in -------------------- September 1995, is an "association" contract whereunder the Company and its co- owner fulfill all exploration obligations without Ecopetrol's participation until a field is declared commercial by Ecopetrol. At such time, Ecopetrol will earn a 50% share in the commercial field and must reimburse its 50% share of successful exploratory wells, seismic and stratigraphic wells, dry step-out exploratory wells and development wells and facilities through its 50% share of production. The contract also provides that Ecopetrol's working interest will be 50% up to 60 million barrels. For production in excess of 60 million barrels, Ecopetrol's interest will increase from 50% to 75%, based on a measure of profitability as defined in the contract.
The contract obligations of the Yuruyaco association contract require the Co- owners to perform in the first and second contract years seismic surveys totaling 19 and 12 miles, respectively. A 2-D seismic program was initiated in late December 1996 that will satisfy such obligations. If the Co-owners decide to proceed into the third year, the drilling of a test well would be required.
Aporte Putumayo Concession. The discoveries on the Aporte Putumayo -------------------------- concession were not declared commercial by Ecopetrol and the properties have been operated by Argosy and Neo without participation by Ecopetrol. There are no remaining exploration obligations under this contract. In a letter dated December 1, 1993, the Company and its co-owner notified Ecopetrol of their intention to relinquish the concession to Ecopetrol as provided in the contract. Ecopetrol has accepted the relinquishment, which is pending the completion of abandonment and restoration operations.
United States. ------------- The Company's oil and gas properties in the United States are located in the Gulf of Mexico offshore Louisiana at Main Pass 41 and Breton Sound 31 fields. Both of these properties are operated by the Company.
Main Pass Block 41 is a federal lease located approximately 25 miles east of Venice, Louisiana, in 50 feet of water. During 1996, the Company successfully completed one development well and recompleted one existing well bringing the number of productive wells in the field up to six. The field's 1996 production averaged 58 barrels of oil per day and 685 MCF per day, net to the Company's interest, from eight completions in four sands between 6,000 and 7,500 feet. The Company owns a 35% interest in this field. Main Pass Block 41 represents approximately 67% of the Company's total net U.S. proved reserves at January 1, 1997.
Breton Sound Block 31 is located 20 miles offshore Louisiana in 16 feet of water. The field is approximately 55 miles southeast of New Orleans on state leases. During 1996, seven wells averaged 153 barrels of oil per day and 85 MCF of gas per day, net to the Company's interest, from two sands completed between 5,500 feet and 6,500 feet. The Company's interests in the leases comprising the field vary from 41% to 67%. Breton Sound Block 31 Field represents approximately 33% of the Company's total net proved U.S. reserves at January 1, 1997.
The interpretation of 3-D seismic data in 1996 has identified two deep and several shallow prospects in the Breton Sound 31 field. The Company is currently discussing plans with prospective industry partners to farm-in to the Company's acreage by drilling one or more exploratory wells that would test the deep prospects. As for the shallow prospects, the Company anticipates that it will drill at least one exploratory well; however, formal plans have not been finalized.
The Company leases corporate office space in Dallas, Texas containing approximately 5,100 square feet pursuant to a lease which expires in January 1999. The lease is cancelable in January 1998. The annual lease payments for these offices are $77,000.
ITEM 3.