Item 2. Properties.
Principal Properties
The Company's proved oil and gas properties are relatively concentrated. Approximately 90% of the PV-10 from the Company's proved reserves at December 31, 2002 was attributable to five principal areas.
The following table presents data regarding the estimated quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and the PV-10 attributable to the Company's principal properties as of December 31, 2002, in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Gulf Coast Area. PetroCorp owns various interests in onshore Gulf Coast properties in Louisiana and Mississippi. With the sale of the Big Excambia Creek properties in 2002, there are only minor properties remaining in Alabama. The primary Gulf Coast fields include East Riceville, Scott, Lake Raccourci and Leeville. East Riceville in Vermillion Parish, Louisiana is a two-well gas field producing 16 MMcf/d from a Miogyp reservoir at approximately 17,000 feet. PetroCorp owns a 13.8% working interest in this field which is operated by Murphy Exploration and Production Company. The Scott Field in Lafayette Parish, Louisiana has recently increased to 6 MMcf/d from the Bol Mex 3 in the Martin Heirs #1, of which PetroCorp owns approximately 10%.
Gulf Coast, TX Area. Includes a new well in the Alta Loma Field in Galveston County, Texas. The Sunny Ernst #1 (25% PetroCorp working interest) is producing 3 MMcf/d and 75 barrels of condensate per day from a Tacquard zone at 14,900 feet. Other significant fields include Hallettsville, Harris and Yoakum. The Yoakum Field in Lavaca County, Texas contains Wilcox pays, including behind pipe recompletions, plus current and future Edwards horizontal production.
Mid-Continent Waterfloods. The Mid-Continent waterfloods group includes the SW Oklahoma City waterflood located within the metropolitan Oklahoma City area. PetroCorp operates 63 wells targeting the Prue formation at 6,500 feet. Current unit production has increased to over 450 bo/d and PetroCorp owns an 86.4% working interest. Other fields include West Hunter, a Misner waterflood and the Will Rogers Unit.
Mid-Continent Area. The Mid-Continent area consists primarily of gas fields scattered throughout Western Oklahoma. Of note is the deep Cement Field in Caddo County, Oklahoma, where PetroCorp has participated with up to a 10% WI in wells drilled below 15,000 feet to the Boatwright. Other fields include Cheyenne and Eakly Weatherford, which are mature, deep gas wells. PetroCorp also has a significant interest in the Glick Field in south-central Kansas.
Gulf Coast Offshore. The Offshore area is comprised of three fields, all in state waters. North Cove is in State of Texas waters off Matagorda Island where PetroCorp drilled a successful 100% working interest Miocene gas well to 7,800 feet. Production should commence in May 2003. PetroCorp holds additional acreage on the play. Breton Sound is in State of Louisiana waters near the mouth of the Mississippi River. PetroCorp participated with 26% interest in a multi-pay well drilled below 10,000 feet. Production should commence in the spring of 2003. The third field, South Timbalier Block 198, is located in the state waters of Louisiana.
Title to Properties
Except for the Company-owned mineral fee, royalty and overriding royalty interests shown in the "Acreage and Wells" table below, substantially all of the Company's United States property interests are held pursuant to leases from third parties. The Company believes that it has satisfactory title to its properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. In certain instances, the Company has acquired legal title to producing properties and has carved out of the properties so acquired net profits royalty interests in favor of institutional investors who supplied a substantial portion of the funds for the acquisition of such properties. The producing property reserves of the Company are stated after giving effect to the reduction in cash flow attributable to such net profits royalty interests. In addition, the Company's properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens that the Company believes do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties.
Oil and Gas Reserves
All information herein regarding estimates of the Company's proved reserves, related future net revenues and PV-10 is taken from reports prepared by PetroCorp and reviewed by Ryder Scott Company, L.P. ("Ryder Scott") (the Independent Engineers). Ryder Scott reviewed approximately 85% of the present value of future net revenues. These reports were prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC and estimates of reserves were based upon production histories and other geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data.
The following table sets forth summary information with respect to the estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2002. The PV-10 values shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves owned by the Company. The prices used in determining future cash inflows for natural gas and oil as of December 31, 2002, were $4.59 per Mcf and $31.20 per barrel, respectively. These prices were based on the cash spot price for natural gas and oil at December 31, 2002.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and future amounts and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground
accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are inherently less certain than estimates of proved developed reserves. The quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures, geologic success and future oil and gas sales prices may all differ from those assumed in these estimates. In addition, the Company's reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, the present value shown above should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties.
In accordance with SEC guidelines, estimates of future net revenues from the Company's proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using oil and gas sales prices in effect as of the dates of such estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including, in the case of gas contracts, the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. See "Marketing" under Item 1 of this report, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under Item 7 of this report and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company. Estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves were not filed with or included in reports to any other federal authority or agency other than the SEC during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002.
Acreage and Wells
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Company's developed and undeveloped leased acreage as of December 31, 2002.
- -------- (1) Approximately 9% of net undeveloped acres are covered by leases that expire during 2003, unless drilling or production otherwise extends lease terms.
As of December 31, 2002, the Company had working interests in 271 gross (101 net) producing oil wells and 218 gross (55 net) producing gas wells in the United States.
Drilling Activities
All of PetroCorp's drilling activities are conducted through arrangements with independent contractors, and it owns no drilling equipment. Certain information with regard to the Company's drilling activities completed during the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 is set forth below:
- -------- /(1)/ The Company has a net working interest of less than 0.05% in this well.
At December 31, 2002, the Company was not participating in the drilling of any wells.
Other Facilities
The Company leases, and subleases to others, approximately 10,000 square feet in Houston, Texas where the Southern Mineral offices were located. The obligation under these leases will end in 2003. Additionally, the Company owns an 18,400 square-foot building and surface pads covering approximately 42 acres related to its Southwest Oklahoma City Field operations and a small gathering system in the Paradox Basin area of southwestern Colorado.
RISK FACTORS
Oil price declines and volatility could adversely affect the Company's revenues, cash flows and profitability.
The Company's revenues, profitability and future rate of growth depend substantially upon the prevailing prices of oil and gas. Because approximately 70% of the Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2002 were natural gas reserves, the Company's financial results are more sensitive to movements in natural gas prices.
Natural gas and oil and are commodities and, therefore, their prices are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in supply and demand; these changes may arise from:
. weather conditions,
. the ability of the members of OPEC to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls,
. political instability or armed conflict in oil-producing regions,
. the price and availability of alternative fuels,
. the availability of pipeline capacity, and
. domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes.
Historically, the markets for natural gas and oil have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. For example, natural gas and oil prices declined significantly in late 1997, 1998, and early 1999, and, for an extended period of time, remained substantially below prices obtained in previous years. Also, prices at December 31, 2002 were substantially higher than prices at the end of 2001. Lower oil and gas prices may reduce the amount of oil and gas the Company produces. Significant reductions in oil and gas prices may require the Company to reduce its capital expenditures. Reducing drilling will make it more difficult for the Company to replace the reserves it produces.
If the Company is not able to replace reserves, it may not be able to sustain current production rates.
The Company's future success depends largely upon its ability to find, develop or acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Unless the Company replaces the reserves it produces through successful development, exploration or acquisition, its proved reserves will decline over time. In addition, approximately 14% by volume of its total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2002 were undeveloped. By their nature, undeveloped reserves are less certain. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The Company may fail to successfully find and produce reserves economically in the future. Drilling levels required to replace reserves will likely increase the Company's exposure to drilling risk.
If the Company does not make significant capital expenditures, it may not be able to exploit reserves.
The Company must make substantial capital expenditures in connection with the exploration, development and production of its oil and gas properties. The Company intends to finance its capital expenditures primarily with existing cash and cash equivalents, funds provided by operations and borrowings under its credit agreement. If the Company's cash flow from operations and availability under existing credit facilities are not sufficient to satisfy capital expenditure requirements, additional debt or equity financing may not be available to allow it to fund its continued growth. The Company has a $75 million revolving credit facility with a borrowing base at December 31, 2002 of $70 million (reduced to $25 million in March 2003.) The company estimates capital expenditures for 2003 to be approximately $10 million.
Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and net present value of our reserves.
The calculations of proved reserves of oil and gas included in this document have been prepared by the Company and reviewed by independent petroleum engineers retained by the Company. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretations and judgment and the assumptions used regarding quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and prices for crude oil and natural gas. Any significant variance between the assumptions used in our estimates and the actual data could result in the actual quantity of our reserves and future net cash flow being materially different from the estimates in the Company's reserve reports. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production and changes in crude oil and natural gas prices after the date of the estimate may result in substantial upward or downward revisions.
Also, the Company may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. At December 31, 2002, 40% of the Company's proved reserves were proved undeveloped or proved non-producing. Further, because most of the Company's reserve estimates are not based on a lengthy production history and are calculated using volumetric analysis, these estimates are less reliable than estimates based on a lengthy production history.
Shareholders should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows from the Company's proved reserves included or incorporated by reference in this report is the current market value of the Company's estimated natural gas and oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the Company bases the estimated discounted future net cash flows from the Company's proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate, which may vary materially from actual future prices and costs.
The PV-10 values referred to herein should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties. In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, the PV-10 values are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for oil and gas, curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value, will be affected by the timing of both the production and the incurrence of expenses in connection with development and production of oil and gas properties. In addition, the 10% discount factor (which is required by the SEC to be used to calculate PV-10 for reporting purposes), is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company and its properties or the oil and gas industry in general.
The Company's industry experiences numerous operating and exploration risks. Insurance may not be adequate to protect the Company against all these risks.
Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil and gas reserves will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain. Oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:
. pressure or irregularities in formations;
. equipment and materials failures or accidents;
. blowouts and surface cratering;
. fires and explosions;
. uncontrollable flows of oil and formation water; and
. environmental hazards such as oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases.
If any of these events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of:
. injury or loss of life;
. severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;
. pollution and other environmental damage;
. regulatory investigation and penalties;
. suspension of our operations; and
. repairs to resume operations.
The Company's insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. The Company does not carry business interruption insurance at levels that would provide enough funds for the Company to continue operating without access to other funds. For some risks, the Company may not obtain insurance if it believes the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Because third party drilling contractors are used to drill the Company's wells, the Company not may not realize the full benefit of workmen's compensation laws in dealing with their employees. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable.
Marketability of the Company's production may be affected by factors beyond its control.
The marketability of the Company's production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of oil and gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Most of the Company's oil and gas will be delivered through gathering systems and pipelines that are not owned by the Company. Federal, state and local regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand and general economic conditions all could adversely affect the Company's ability to produce and market its oil and gas.
The Company may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties that it acquires or obtain protection from sellers against them.
The successful acquisition of producing properties involves an assessment of recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors beyond the Company's control. This assessment is inexact and uncertain. In connection with this assessment the Company will perform a review of the subject properties, but this review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. Inspections may not be performed on every well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. The Company may in many cases assume pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and will likely acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis. The Company's acquisitions may be unsuccessful. The failure of the Company to successfully complete acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Competitive Industry
The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company competes for corporate and property acquisitions and the exploration, development, production, transportation and marketing of oil and gas, as well as contracting for equipment and securing personnel, with major oil and gas companies, other independent oil and gas concerns and individual producers and operators. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources which substantially exceed those available to the Company.
Risks That Might Arise from the Management Agreement
The Company has only two employees, and all of its technical and corporate services are provided by Kaiser-Francis pursuant to a management agreement. As a result, the Company does not have full control over its operations. Either the Company or Kaiser-Francis may terminate the Kaiser-Francis management agreement at any time upon six month's notice. If the agreement is terminated, and if the Company is unable to engage third parties to perform these services and have to replicate facilities, services or employees that the Company is not using full time, or are not able to engage a third party at costs similar to those charged by Kaiser-Francis, the Company's costs would increase. The Company may not be able to find another contractor to provide substantially similar services at the same rates or replicate such services without incurring additional costs.
Kaiser-Francis, PetroCorp's largest shareholder, and its subsidiaries explore for and produce oil and gas in some of the same geographic areas in which the Company operates. Kaiser-Francis is not required to pursue a business strategy that will favor PetroCorp business opportunities over the business opportunities of Kaiser-Francis, its affiliates, or any other competitor of PetroCorp acquired by Kaiser-Francis. In fact, Kaiser-Francis may have financial motives to favor itself.
In addition, because of the Company's management agreement with Kaiser-Francis, PetroCorp, Kaiser-Francis and its affiliates share, and therefore will compete for, the time and effort of Kaiser-Francis personnel who provide services to the Company. Officers of Kaiser-Francis and its affiliates do not and will not be required to spend any specified percentage or amount of their time on the Company's business. Since these shared officers function as both the Company's representatives and those of Kaiser-Francis and its affiliates, conflicts of interest could arise between Kaiser-Francis and its affiliates, on the one hand, and the Company and its shareholders, on the other.
Hedging Activities
The Company periodically utilizes energy swap arrangements and futures transactions to reduce sensitivity to oil and gas price volatility. If the Company's reserves are not produced at the rates estimated by the Company due to inaccuracies in the reserve estimation process, operational difficulties or regulatory limitations, the Company will be required to satisfy obligations it may have under fixed price sales or hedging contracts on potentially unfavorable terms without the ability to hedge that risk through sales of comparable quantities of its own production. Further, the terms under which the Company enters into fixed price sales and hedging contracts are based on assumptions and estimates of numerous factors such as cost of production and pipeline and other transportation costs to delivery points. Substantial variations between the assumptions and estimates used and actual results experienced could materially adversely affect anticipated profit margins and PetroCorp's ability to manage the risk associated with fluctuations in oil and gas prices.
In addition, fixed price sales and hedging contracts are subject to the risk that the counter-party may prove unable or unwilling to perform its obligations under these contracts. Any significant nonperformance could have a material adverse financial effect on the Company. The company had no hedging contracts at December 31, 2002.
The Company's articles of incorporation, bylaws and rights plan discourage corporate takeovers and could prevent shareholders from realizing a premium on their investment.
The Company's articles of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of the Texas Business Corporation Act may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. The Company's directors are elected to staggered terms. Also, the Company's articles of incorporation authorize the Company's board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval and to set the rights, preferences and other designations, including voting rights of those shares as the board may determine, and the Company has available authorized
but unissued common stock. In addition, the Company has adopted a rights plan, as further which could, alone or in combination with the articles of incorporation and the bylaws, discourage transactions involving actual or potential changes of control, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to shareholders for their common stock.
Costs to comply with environmental laws and governmental regulations are significant.
Environmental and other governmental laws, some of which are applied retroactively, have increased the costs to plan, design, drill, install, operate and abandon oil and natural gas wells and related facilities. The Company may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental laws.
Under these laws and regulations, the Company could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. The Company does not believe that full insurance coverage for all potential environmental damages is available at a reasonable cost. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. For example, Congress or the Minerals Management Service could decide to limit exploratory drilling or natural gas production in some areas of the Gulf of Mexico. Accordingly, any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
A small number of shareholders control the Company, making it difficult for the Company's other shareholders to affect the Company's management.
Directors, executive officers and principal shareholders of the Company, and their affiliates, beneficially own approximately 55% of the Company, including approximately 38% owned by Kaiser-Francis. Accordingly, these shareholders, as a group, will be able to control the outcome of shareholder votes, including votes concerning the election of directors, the adoption or amendment of provisions in the Company's articles of incorporation or bylaws, and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. The existence of these levels of ownership concentrated in a few persons makes it unlikely that any other holder of the Company's common stock will be able to affect the management or direction of the Company. These factors may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in the management or voting control of the Company, including transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices to holders of the Company's common stock.
The Company may not pay dividends on its common stock.
The Company has not declared or paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock to date. The Board of Directors of the Company has not determined if it will declare cash dividends on its Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Any future cash dividends would depend on the availability of investment opportunities, future earnings, capital requirements, the Company's financial condition and other factors deemed relevant by the Company's Board of Directors. The terms of the Company's credit facility prohibits the declaration or payment of any dividends and would need to be modified before any dividends could be declared.
Item 3.