Item 2. Properties.
Principal Properties
The Company's proved oil and gas properties are relatively concentrated. Approximately 76% of the PV-10 from the Company's proved reserves at December 31, 2000 was attributable to four principal areas.
The following table presents data regarding the estimated quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and the PV-10 attributable to the Company's principal properties as of December 31, 2000, all of which are taken from reports prepared by Huddleston & Co., Inc. in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Hanlan-Robb. PetroCorp's largest single producing area is the Hanlan-Robb natural gas production complex located in the foothills region of western Alberta, Canada, which accounted for approximately 42% of the Company's 2000 net daily gas production. The Company owns an interest in eleven producing fields in this area, covering 46,000 developed acres, with current combined production of 240 MMcf/D. PetroCorp has additional interests in 80,000 undeveloped acres in this area. The key field is the Hanlan Swan Hills Gas Unit #1, with an estimated ultimate recovery of 1.5 Tcf and current gross production of 134 MMcf/D. PetroCorp's ownership is part of a joint venture managed by the Company with institutional investors that collectively own 21.7% of the field. PetroCorp's working interest in this field is 35% of the joint venture, or 7.6%. Petro-Canada (not an affiliate of PetroCorp) is the largest interest owner in the area and operates the Hanlan-Robb area fields and the related gathering system and processing plant. Other PetroCorp fields in this area include Shaw/Basing, Minehead, Columbia, Red Cap, Lambert, Banshee and Medicine Lodge.
Oklahoma City Area. Includes the Southwest Oklahoma City Field located within the metropolitan Oklahoma City area in Oklahoma and the Edmond Prospect located just north of Oklahoma City. In the Southwest Oklahoma City Field area, PetroCorp operates 61 wells and has a working interest in two additional wells. The Company also owns a 4% working interest in the adjacent Will Rogers Unit, operated by Marathon. The key property is the PetroCorp operated SW Oklahoma City Unit, a field-wide waterflood unit targeting the Prue formation at 6,500 feet. Current unit production is approximately 400 BOPD and 2,200 Mcf/D. The Company owns an 86.4% working interest in the unit.
South Louisiana Area. Includes ownership in the East Riceville Field in Vermillion Parish and the Scott Field in Lafayette Parish. East Riceville is a two-well gas field producing 16 MMcf/D from a Miogyp reservoir at approximately 17,000 feet. PetroCorp owns a 13.8% working interest in this field, which is operated by Murphy Exploration and Production Company.
McLeod Field. As part of an acquisition in late 1996, the Company acquired one shut-in oil well in this field in west central Alberta, Canada. Since then, PetroCorp has drilled seven successful wells and acquired an interest in two producing wells. A gas conservation project is expected to be completed in early 2001 to capture flared solution gas from the oil wells. The Company's working interests vary from 12% to 100% in 9.8 sections (approximately 6,240 acres).
Other Properties. Other significant U.S. properties include the Glick Field located in south-central Kansas, the Hunter Misener Unit located in Alfalfa County, Oklahoma, the Maynor Creek Field in Wayne County, Mississippi, the Harris Field in Live Oak County, Texas, and the Paradox Basin area of southwest Colorado. Other significant Canadian properties include the Trochu Prospect in south-central Alberta and the Worsley Triassic A Pool located on the north flank of the Peace River Arch in Alberta.
Title to Properties
United States. Except for the Company-owned mineral fee, royalty and overriding royalty interests shown in the "Acreage and Wells" table below, substantially all of the Company's United States property interests are held pursuant to leases from third parties. The Company believes that it has satisfactory title to its properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. In numerous instances, the Company has acquired legal title to producing properties and has carved out of the properties so acquired net profits royalty interests in favor of institutional investors who supplied a substantial portion of the funds for the acquisition of such properties. The producing property reserves of the Company are stated after giving effect to the reduction in cash flow attributable to such net profits royalty interests. In addition, the Company's properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens that the Company believes do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties.
Canada. Canadian property interests are held primarily under leases from the Crown. A small percentage are from freehold owners. Prior to drilling on a non-Crown lease or acquiring a non-Crown producing lease, the Company generally obtains a title opinion covering the "historical" (freehold) title. The Company generally
relies on a title certificate under Canada's Torrens title registration system to verify "current" (leasehold) ownership. Except for these differences, title matters in Canada are similar to those in the United States.
Oil and Gas Reserves
All information herein regarding estimates of the Company's proved reserves, related future net revenues and PV-10 is taken from reports prepared by Huddleston & Co., Inc. (the Independent Engineers) in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. The Independent Engineers' estimates were based upon a review of production histories and other geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data provided by the Company.
The following table sets forth summary information with respect to the estimates made by the Independent Engineers of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2000. The PV-10 values shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves owned by the Company. The average prices used in determining future cash inflows for natural gas and oil as of December 31, 2000, were $9.19 per Mcf and $27.16 per barrel, respectively. These prices were based on the adjusted cash spot price for natural gas and oil at December 31, 2000. These prices are significantly higher than the average natural gas and oil price received by PetroCorp during December 2000, and the prices PetroCorp expects to receive during 2001 and ensuing years.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and future amounts and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are inherently less certain than estimates of proved developed reserves. The quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures, geologic success and future oil and gas sales prices may all differ from those assumed in these estimates. In addition, the Company's reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, the present value shown above should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties.
In accordance with SEC guidelines, the Independent Engineers' estimates of future net revenues from the Company's proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using oil, gas and sulfur sales prices in effect as of the dates of such estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including, in the case of gas contracts, the use of fixed and determinable
contractual price escalations. See "Marketing" under Item 1 of this report, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under Item 7 of this report and "Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company. Estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves were not filed with or included in reports to any other federal authority or agency other than the SEC during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.
Acreage and Wells
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Company's developed and undeveloped leased acreage as of December 31, 2000.
- -------- (1) Approximately 16% of net undeveloped acres are covered by leases that expire during 2001, unless drilling or production otherwise extends lease terms.
As of December 31, 2000, the Company had working interests in 233 gross (75 net) producing oil wells and 197 gross (35 net) producing gas wells. Of these wells, 20 gross (18 net) oil wells and 56 gross (11 net) gas wells were in Canada, and the remainder of the oil and gas wells were in the United States.
Drilling Activities
All of PetroCorp's drilling activities are conducted through arrangements with independent contractors, and it owns no drilling equipment. Certain information with regard to the Company's drilling activities completed during the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 is set forth below:
- -------- (1) The Company has a net working interest less than 0.05% in these wells.
At December 31, 2000, the Company was participating in the drilling of 3 gross (.3 net) wells. Of these, 1 gross (.1 net) was in the United States and 2 gross (.2 net) were in Canada.
Hanlan-Robb Natural Gas Processing Plant and Gas Gathering Systems
PetroCorp owns interests in a centrally located gas processing plant and in a gas gathering system that connects all of the Company's currently producing Hanlan-Robb fields to the Hanlan-Robb plant. Commissioned in 1983, the estimated replacement value is approximately $340 ($C500) million. The original design capacity of 300 MMcf/D has been expanded to 380 MMcf/D and two new major pipeline systems began delivering third-party gas to the plant for processing in September 1998. This third-party gas, for which processing fees are received, plus gas from additional drilling in the area, has increased plant throughput from 220 MMcf/D to approximately 340 MMcf/D at year-end 2000. PetroCorp owns a 24.5% working interest in the plant and varying working interests in the gathering systems, dehydration and compression facilities that deliver gas to the plant.
Previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Fidelity Gas Systems, Inc. ("FGS"), owned and operated the Anasazi Gas Gathering System, which gathers gas produced from the Company-operated lease in the Paradox Basin area of southwest Colorado. In December 1997, FGS was merged into the Company. The working interest owners have entered into contracts with the Company pursuant to which the Company purchases all of the gas produced from the area. This gas is then resold by the Company to a purchaser at a redelivery point on the national transmission pipeline system. Proceeds payable by the Company are based upon the Company's resale price less a contractually agreed-upon fee. Amounts received by the Company are distributed to all working interest and royalty owners in the producing area in accordance with their ownership interests. Because it is a gas gathering system, the Anasazi Gas Gathering System has been deemed nonjurisdictional with respect to existing FERC rules and regulations.
Other Facilities
In 2000, the Company found a replacement lessee for approximately 31,600 square feet in Houston, Texas where its primary office was previously located. The Company leases, and subleases to others, approximately 8,200 square feet in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and approximately 4,000 square feet in Calgary, Alberta where divisional offices were previously located. The obligation under these leases will end in 2001 for the Oklahoma City lease and 2002 for the Calgary lease. Additionally, the Company owns an 18,400 square-foot building and surface pads covering approximately 42 acres related to its Southwest Oklahoma City Field operations.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS
Current and prospective stockholders should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in PetroCorp. The information discussed herein includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). All statements other than statements of historical facts included herein regarding planned capital expenditures, increases in oil and gas production, the number of anticipated wells to be drilled after the date hereof, the Company's financial position, business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations, are forward- looking statements. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, they do involve certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, and the Company can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors.
All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such factors.
Volatile Nature of Oil and Gas Markets; Fluctuations in Prices
The Company's future financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the demand and prices received for oil and gas production and on the costs of acquiring, developing and producing reserves. Oil and gas prices have historically been volatile and are expected by the Company to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for oil and gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Company's control. These factors include political conditions in the Middle East and elsewhere, domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas, the level of consumer demand, weather conditions, domestic and foreign government regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels and overall economic conditions. A decline in oil or gas prices may adversely affect the Company's cash flow, liquidity and profitability. Lower oil or gas prices also may reduce the amount of the Company's oil and gas that can be produced economically.
Dependence on Acquiring and Finding Additional Reserves
The Company's prospects for future growth and profitability will depend predominantly on its ability to replace present reserves through acquisitions and exploratory drilling, as well as on its ability to successfully develop additional reserves. There can be no assurance that the Company's acquisition and exploration activities or planned development projects will result in significant additional reserves or that the Company will have continuing success at drilling economically productive wells.
Substantial Capital Requirements
The Company has made substantial capital expenditures in connection with the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and gas properties. Future cash flows and the availability of credit are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and gas and the Company's success in locating and producing new reserves. If revenues were to decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices, decreased production or otherwise, and the Company had no available credit, the Company could be limited in its ability to replace its reserves or to maintain production at current levels, resulting in a decrease in production and revenue over time. If the Company's cash flow from operations and available credit are not sufficient to satisfy its capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements.
Reliance on Estimates of Reserves and Future Net Cash Flows
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves, including many factors beyond the Company's control. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flow necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary significantly. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to the Company's reserves likely will vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. In addition, the Company's reserves and future cash flows may be subject to revisions based upon production history, results of future development, oil and gas prices, performance of counterparties under agreements to which the Company is a party, operating and development costs and other factors.
The PV-10 values referred to herein should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties. In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, the PV-10 values are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for oil and gas, curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value, will be affected by the timing of both the production and the incurrence of expenses in connection with development and production of oil and gas properties. In addition, the 10% discount factor (which is required by the SEC to be used to calculate PV-10 for reporting purposes), is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company and its properties or the oil and gas industry in general.
Exploration Risks
Exploratory drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered, and there can be no assurance that new wells drilled by the Company will be productive or that the Company will recover all or any portion of its investment. Drilling for oil and gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from non- productive wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. The Company's drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control, including title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services.
Marketing Risks
The Company's ability to market its oil and gas production at commercially acceptable prices is dependent on, among other factors, the availability and capacity of gathering systems and pipelines, federal and state regulation of production and transportation, general economic conditions, and changes in supply and in demand.
Acquisition Risks
Acquisitions of oil and gas businesses and properties and volumetric production payments have been an important element of the Company's success, and the Company will continue to seek acquisitions in the future. Even though the Company performs a review (including a limited review of title and other records) of the major properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are inherently incomplete and it is generally not feasible for the Company to review in-depth every property and all records. Even an in-depth review may not reveal existing or potential problems or permit the Company to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities, and the Company often assumes environmental and other liabilities in connection with acquired businesses and properties.
Operating Risks
The Company's operations are subject to numerous risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, including the risks of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company's operations may be materially curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, accidents, title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. In accordance with customary industry practice, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. There can be no assurance that the levels of insurance maintained by the Company will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities.
Competitive Industry
The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company competes for corporate and property acquisitions and the exploration, development, production, transportation and marketing of oil and gas, as well as contracting for equipment and securing personnel, with major oil and gas companies, other independent oil and gas concerns and individual producers and operators. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources which substantially exceed those available to the Company.
Risks That Might Arise from the Management Agreement
Potential operational inefficiencies may occur during a transition period. Although a change is not currently anticipated, the Management Agreement with Kaiser-Francis provides for termination by either party after a six-month notice. In that unlikely event, some operational inefficiencies may occur as replacement personnel become familiar with the Company's properties and operations.
Government Regulation
The Company's business is subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the drilling for and production, transportation and marketing of oil and gas, as well as environmental and safety matters. Such laws and regulations have generally become more stringent in recent years, often imposing greater liability on an increasing number of parties. Because the requirements imposed by such laws and regulations are frequently changed, the Company is unable to predict the effect or cost of compliance with such requirements or their effects on oil and gas use or prices. In addition, legislative proposals are frequently introduced in Congress and state legislatures which, if enacted, might significantly affect the oil and gas industry. In view of the many uncertainties which exist with respect to any legislative proposals, the effect on the Company of any legislation which might be enacted cannot be predicted.
Item 3.