ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
PRINCIPAL PROPERTIES
The Company's proved oil and gas properties are relatively concentrated. Approximately 80% of the PV-10 from the Company's proved reserves at December 31, 1996 was attributable to seven principal areas.
The following table presents data regarding the estimated quantities of proved oil and gas reserves and the PV-10 attributable to the Company's principal properties as of December 31, 1996, all of which are taken from reports prepared by Huddleston & Co., Inc. and Paddock Lindstrom & Associates Ltd. in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Hanlan-Robb. PetroCorp's largest single producing area is the Hanlan-Robb natural gas production complex located in the foothills region of western Alberta, Canada, which accounts for 40% of the Company's net daily gas production. The Company has ownership interests in all eight area fields, but the majority of its Hanlan-Robb proved reserves and present value are currently attributable to one field, the Hanlan Swan Hills Gas Unit #1. PetroCorp's ownership is part of a joint venture managed by the Company with institutional investors that collectively own 21.6% of the field. After an ownership reversion in early 1997, PetroCorp's working interest in this field has increased by 40%, from 5.4% to 7.5%. Petro-Canada is the largest interest owner in the area and operates the fields and the related gathering system and processing plant.
Oklahoma City Area. Includes the Southwest Oklahoma City Unit located within the metropolitan Oklahoma City area in Oklahoma and the Edmond Prospect located just north of the city. The Southwest Oklahoma City field is bounded to the southeast by the Oklahoma City Prue Unit and to the Southwest by the Wheatland and Will Rogers Units and produces oil with associated casinghead gas. As of December 31, 1996, PetroCorp had an undeveloped leasehold position of 788 gross (525 net) acres in the Edmond Prospect.
Mississippi Salt Basin. Production from the Mississippi Salt Basin accounts for 30% of PetroCorp's net domestic oil sales. This basin is one of PetroCorp's most active exploration areas. At the end of 1994, the Company made a new field discovery of oil and associated natural gas in the Maynor Creek Field in Wayne County, Mississippi. The largest of its two producing fields in the basin, the Company has drilled three successful development wells there, two in 1995 and one in December 1996. PetroCorp operates the four wells in the field and increased its 50% average working interest to 57.7% before payout and 65% after payout when it acquired a partner's interest in October 1996. In September 1996, expanding on its successes in the basin, the Company entered into a seismic joint venture agreement with a subsidiary of Shell Oil Company to extend its exploration effort into an 18-county area. Under the terms of the agreement, PetroCorp has access to Shell's extensive 2-D
seismic database in the area (approximately 13,000 line-miles of data) and other proprietary information held by Shell. As of December 31, 1996, PetroCorp had an undeveloped leasehold position of 13,709 gross (6,390 net) acres in this area.
Northern Oklahoma Area. The Northern Oklahoma Area is located in Alfalfa and Grant Counties in north central Oklahoma. Production is primarily oil with associated casinghead gas from fourteen fields. PetroCorp operates 28 of the wells in nine fields located in this trend, of which two fields are the subject of pressure maintenance waterfloods. The Company also has non-operated working interests in two additional waterfloods. PetroCorp continues to actively pursue both exploration and development in the Northern Oklahoma Area, and at December 31, 1996 had an undeveloped leasehold position of approximately 17,410 gross (11,193 net) acres.
Worsley Field. The largest of the producing properties acquired from Millarville Oil & Gas Ltd. in December 1996, this field is located in northwest Alberta, Canada and primarily produces oil and associated casinghead gas. The Company operates seven wells in the field and owns 100% of the working interests. It also owns an interest in one non-operated well. With an undeveloped leasehold position of 1,040 gross (976 net) acres at December 31, 1996, the Company plans to pursue further development of this field.
Scott Field. This prolific five-well field in south central Louisiana produces primarily natural gas with associated condensate. PetroCorp owns an interest of approximately 3% in the field.
Glick Field. The Glick field is located in Kiowa County in southern Kansas and is one of several natural gas producing fields that form an arc around the southern end of the Central Kansas Uplift. PetroCorp currently has interests in and operates a total of eight wells in the field.
Other Properties. Other significant properties include the Harris Field located in Live Oak County in south central Texas, the Paradox Basin area of southwest Colorado and the Cheyenne West Field in western Oklahoma.
TITLE TO PROPERTIES
United States. Except for the Company-owned mineral fee, royalty and overriding royalty interests shown in the "Acreage and Wells" table below, substantially all of the Company's United States property interests are held pursuant to leases from third parties. The Company believes that it has satisfactory title to its properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry. In numerous instances the Company has acquired legal title to producing properties and has carved out of the properties so acquired net profits royalty interests in favor of institutional investors who supplied a substantial portion of the funds for the acquisition of such properties. The producing property reserves of the Company are stated after giving effect to the reduction in cash flow attributable to such net profits royalty interests. In addition, the Company's properties are subject to customary royalty interests, liens for current taxes and other burdens that the Company believes do not materially interfere with the use of or affect the value of such properties.
Canada. Canadian property interests are held primarily under leases from the Crown. A small percentage are from freehold owners. Prior to drilling on a non-Crown lease or acquiring a non-Crown producing lease, the Company generally obtains a title opinion covering the "historical" (freehold) title. The Company generally relies on a title certificate under Canada's Torrens title registration system to verify "current" (leasehold) ownership. Except for these differences, title matters in Canada are similar to those in the United States.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
All information herein regarding estimates of the Company's proved reserves, related future net revenues and PV-10 is taken from reports prepared by Huddleston & Co., Inc. and Paddock Lindstrom & Associates Ltd. (together, the Independent Engineers) in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC. The Independent Engineers' estimates were based upon a review of production histories and other geologic, economic, ownership and engineering data provided by the Company.
The following table sets forth summary information with respect to the estimates made by the Independent Engineers of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 1996. The PV-10 values shown in the table are not intended to represent the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves owned by the Company.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and future amounts and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of crude oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of proved undeveloped reserves are inherently less certain than estimates of proved developed reserves. The quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered, production and operating costs, the amount and timing of future development expenditures, geologic success and future oil and gas sales prices may all differ from those assumed in these estimates. In addition, the Company's reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, the present value shown above should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties.
In accordance with SEC guidelines, the Independent Engineers' estimates of future net revenues from the Company's proved reserves and the present value thereof are made using oil, gas and sulfur sales prices in effect as of the dates of such estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties except where such guidelines permit alternate treatment, including, in the case of gas contracts, the use of fixed and determinable contractual price escalations. See "Marketing" under Item 1 of this report, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" under Item 7 of this report and "Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements" in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company. Estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves were not filed with or included in reports to any other federal authority or agency other than the SEC during the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996.
ACREAGE AND WELLS
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Company's developed and undeveloped leased acreage as of December 31, 1996.
- -------- (1) Approximately 56% of net (approximately 62% of net participating interest) undeveloped acres are covered by leases that expire during 1997. The Company has the option, which it plans to exercise for approximately 60% of the acreage, to extend the primary lease term under certain conditions for 51,072 net (as well as net participating interest) undeveloped areas in Colorado. Assuming the Company exercises its option to extend the lease term for 60% of the acreage, approximately 40% of net (approximately 30% of net participating interest) undeveloped acres would be covered by leases that expire in 1997. (2) Net participating interest represents the Company's net working interest less net profits royalty interests carved out and reconveyed to institutional investors.
As of December 31, 1996, the Company had working interests in 291 gross (120 net) producing oil wells and 197 gross (59 net) producing gas wells. Of these wells, 67 gross (25 net) oil wells and 83 gross (19 net) gas wells were in Canada, and the remainder of the oil and gas wells were in the United States. The Company had two wells with multiple completions in the United States.
DRILLING ACTIVITIES
All of PetroCorp's drilling activities are conducted through arrangements with independent contractors, and it owns no drilling equipment. Certain information with regard to the Company's drilling activities, during the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 is set forth below:
- -------- (1) Net participating interest represents the Company's net working interest less net profits royalty interests carved out and reconveyed to institutional investors. (2) The Company has a net participating interest less than 0.05% in this well.
At December 31, 1996, the Company was participating in the drilling or completion of 3 gross (.9 net) wells in Canada.
HANLAN-ROBB NATURAL GAS PROCESSING PLANT AND GAS GATHERING SYSTEMS
PetroCorp owns interests in a centrally located gas processing plant and in a gas gathering system that connects all five of the Company's currently producing Hanlan-Robb fields to the Hanlan-Robb plant. The gas processing plant, which is operated by Petro-Canada, was commissioned in 1983 and has a processing capacity of approximately 300 MMcf of gas per day. For the 12 months ending December 31, 1996, plant throughput averaged 200 MMcf per day (67% of design capacity). Recent activity for the Hanlan Unit included installation and start-up of a $10.0 million compression project. In addition, the first of several potential horizontal laterals from existing Hanlan Unit wells has been drilled and is awaiting final production testing. The Hanlan 6- 23 well has been deviated laterally almost 1,000 feet in an attempt to increase its productivity and mitigate natural field decline. These projects along with an active exploration and development drilling program in the area, are designed, in part, to mitigate natural production declines and keep the plant operating at high utilization rates.
A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Fidelity Gas Systems, Inc. ("FGS"), owns and operates the Anasazi Gas Gathering System, which gathers gas produced from the Company-operated lease in the Paradox Basin area of southwest Colorado. The Company as operator, along with the other working interest owners, has entered into contracts with FGS pursuant to which FGS purchases all of the gas produced from the area. This gas is then resold by FGS to a purchaser at a redelivery point on the national transmission pipeline system. Proceeds payable by FGS are based upon FGS's resale price less a contractually agreed-upon fee. Amounts received by the Company from FGS are distributed to all working interest and royalty owners in the producing area in accordance with their ownership interests. Because it is a gas gathering system, the Anasazi Gas Gathering System is considered nonjurisdictional with respect to existing FERC rules and regulations.
As previously discussed as part of the asset rationalization program, FGS sold its Southwest Oklahoma City Field gas gathering system in March 1996.
In addition to the gas gathering systems, for several years FGS owned a 10% interest in a crude oil pipeline. FGS purchased the remaining 90% of this pipeline in September 1995 and sold the entire pipeline to a third party in February 1996.
OTHER FACILITIES
The Company leases approximately 31,600 square feet in Houston, Texas for its executive and divisional offices. Additionally, the Company leases approximately 18,500 square feet in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and approximately 2,900 square feet in Calgary, Alberta for divisional offices.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS
Current and prospective stockholders should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating an investment in PetroCorp. The information discussed herein includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). All statements other than statements of historical facts included herein regarding planned capital expenditures, increases in oil and gas production, the number of anticipated wells to be drilled after the date hereof, the Company's financial position, business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, they do involve certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, and the Company can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors.
All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to the Company or persons acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by such factors.
VOLATILE NATURE OF OIL AND GAS MARKETS; FLUCTUATIONS IN PRICES
The Company's future financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the demand and prices received for oil and gas production and on the costs of acquiring, developing and producing reserves. Oil and gas prices have historically been volatile and are expected by the Company to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for oil and gas are subject to wide fluctuation in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Company's control. These factors include political conditions in the Middle East and elsewhere, domestic and foreign supply of oil and gas, the level of consumer demand, weather conditions, domestic and foreign government regulations and taxes, the price and availability of alternative fuels and overall economic conditions. A decline in oil or gas prices may adversely affect the Company's cash flow, liquidity and profitability. Lower oil or gas prices also may reduce the amount of the Company's oil and gas that can be produced economically.
DEPENDENCE ON ACQUIRING AND FINDING ADDITIONAL RESERVES
The Company's prospects for future growth and profitability will depend predominately on its ability to replace present reserves through acquisitions and development and exploratory drilling, as well as on its ability to successfully develop additional reserves. There can be no assurance that the Company's acquisition and exploration activities or planned development projects will result in significant additional reserves or that the Company will have continuing success at drilling economically productive wells.
SUBSTANTIAL CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
The Company has made, and likely will continue to make, substantial capital expenditures in connection with the acquisition, exploration and development of oil and gas properties. Future cash flows and the availability of credit are subject to a number of variables, such as the level of production from existing wells, prices of oil and gas and the Company's success in locating and producing new reserves. If revenues were to decrease as a result of lower oil and gas prices, decreased production or otherwise, and the Company had no available credit, the Company could be limited in its ability to replace its reserves or to maintain production at current levels, resulting in a decrease in production and revenue over time. If the Company's cash flow from operations and available credit are not sufficient to satisfy its capital expenditure requirements, there can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available to meet these requirements.
RELIANCE ON ESTIMATES OF RESERVES AND FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves, including many factors beyond the Company's control. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flow necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas, the assumed effects of regulation by governmental agencies, assumptions concerning future oil and gas prices, future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and workover and remedial costs, all of which may in fact vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities of oil and gas attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of such reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows expected therefrom prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary significantly. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to the Company's reserves likely will vary from estimates, and such variances may be material. In addition, the Company's reserves and future cash flows may be subject to revisions based upon production history, results of future development, oil and gas prices, performance of counterparties under agreements to which the Company is a party, operating and development costs and other factors.
The PV-10 values referred to herein should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties. In accordance with applicable requirements of the SEC, PV-10 is generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices
and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as the amount and timing of actual production, supply and demand for oil and gas, curtailments or increases in consumption by natural gas purchasers and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value, will be affected by the timing of both the production and the incurrence of expenses in connection with development and production of oil and gas properties. In addition, the 10% discount factor (which is required by the SEC to be used to calculate PV-10 for reporting purposes), is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company and its properties or the oil and gas industry in general.
EXPLORATION RISKS
Exploratory drilling activities are subject to many risks, including the risk that no commercially productive reservoirs will be encountered, and there can be no assurance that new wells drilled by the Company will be productive or that the Company will recover all or any portion of its investment. Drilling for oil and gas may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from non- productive wells, but from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain. The Company's drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control, including title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment and services.
MARKETING RISKS
The Company's ability to market its oil and gas production at commercially acceptable prices is dependent on, among other factors, the availability and capacity of gathering systems and pipelines, federal and state regulation of production and transportation, general economic conditions, and changes in supply and in demand.
ACQUISITION RISKS
Acquisitions of oil and gas businesses and properties and volumetric production payments have been an important element of the Company's success, and the Company will continue to seek acquisitions in the future. Even though the Company performs a review (including a limited review of title and other records) of the major properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are inherently incomplete and it is generally not feasible for the Company to review in-depth every property and all records. Even an in-depth review may not reveal existing or potential problems or permit the Company to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities, and the Company often assumes environmental and other liabilities in connection with acquired businesses and properties.
OPERATING RISKS
The Company's operations are subject to numerous risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, including the risks of fire, explosions, blow-outs, pipe failure, abnormally pressured formations and environmental accidents such as oil spills, natural gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, the occurrence of any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution or other environmental damage, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company's operations may be materially curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of numerous factors, including the presence of unanticipated pressure or irregularities in formations, accidents, title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. In accordance with customary industry practice, the Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. There can be no assurance that the levels of insurance maintained by the Company will be adequate to cover any losses or liabilities.
COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY
The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company competes for corporate and property acquisitions and the exploration, development, production, transportation and marketing of oil and gas, as well as contracting for equipment and securing personnel, with major oil and gas companies, other independent oil and gas concerns and individual producers and operators. Many of these competitors have financial and other resources which substantially exceed those available to the Company.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
The Company's business is subject to certain federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the drilling for and production, transportation and marketing of oil and gas, as well as environmental and safety matters. Such laws and regulations have generally become more stringent in recent years, often imposing greater liability on an increasing number of parties. Because the requirements imposed by such laws and regulations are frequently changed, the Company is unable to predict the effect or cost of compliance with such requirements or their effects on oil and gas use or prices. In addition, legislative proposals are frequently introduced in Congress and state legislatures which, if enacted, might significantly affect the oil and gas industry. In view of the many uncertainties which exist with respect to any legislative proposals, the effect on the Company of any legislation which might be enacted cannot be predicted.
ITEM 3.