ITEM 2 - -PROPERTIES
GENERAL
The Company's oil and gas acquisition, exploration and development activities are conducted mainly in its Core Areas: the Sonora area of West Texas; the Mid-Continent area of Oklahoma, Kansas and the Panhandle of Texas; the Western area of West Texas and Southeast New Mexico; the Gulf Coast area of South Texas; the Offshore area in the Gulf of Mexico; and the Arklatex area of East Texas, Southwest Arkansas and Northern Louisiana. At December 31, 1997, the Company had interests in approximately 9,100 producing properties, 3,300 of which it operates. Proved reserves as of December 31, 1997, consisted of 29 MMBbls of oil and 1.0 Tcf of natural gas, or 1.2 Tcfe. Properties operated by the Company represented 78% of total proved reserves. Net daily production during 1997 was 5.7 MBbls of oil and 196.5 MMcf of natural gas, or 230.9 MMcfe, which includes the impact of production from the American Acquisition from October 14, 1997 through December 31, 1997. During 1997, the Company drilled 295 developmental oil and gas wells, 275 of which were completed as commercial producers, and 48 exploratory wells, 36 of which were successfully completed.
For 1998, the Company has allocated $200 million for its 1998 drilling program. Of this amount $78 million, or 39%, has been allocated to exploration activities and $122 million, or 61%, has been allocated to development activities. It is expected that the 1998 program will result in the drilling of 400 wells, of which 60 will be exploratory wells and 340 will be development wells.
CORE AREAS
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's activities in each of its principal producing areas as of December 31, 1997:
CORE AREAS
- ------------------------
(1) Average net daily production for December 1997.
SONORA AREA
The Sonora area is located in the West Texas counties of Schleicher, Crockett, Sutton and Edwards. It is comprised of five fields, Sawyer, Shurley Ranch, MMW, Aldwell Ranch and Whitehead, which are located on the northeast side of the Val Verde Basin of West Central Texas. Development of the Company's Sonora properties was initiated in the 1970's. Production is predominately from the Canyon formation at depths ranging from 2,500 to 6,500 feet and the Strawn formation at depths ranging from 5,000 to 9,000 feet. The majority of the Company's interest in these properties was accumulated through acquisitions in 1993 and 1995.
CANYON FORMATION. Natural gas in the Canyon formation is stratigraphically trapped in lenticular sandstone reservoirs and the typical Sonora Area well encounters numerous such reservoirs over the Canyon formation's gross thickness of approximately 1,500 feet. The Canyon reservoirs tend to be discontinuous and to exhibit low porosity and permeability, characteristics which reduce the area that can be effectively drained by a single well. These characteristics have encouraged operators in the area to undertake Canyon infill drilling programs over the years. Initial wells were drilled on 640 acre drilling units, but well performance characteristics have indicated that denser well spacing is necessary for effective drainage. The Company continues to downsize these units, and the fields currently are developed in some areas on 40 acre spacing.
STRAWN FORMATION. The Strawn formation, a shallow-marine, fossiliferous limestone, produces natural gas from fractures and irregularly distributed porosity trends draped across anticlinal features. Original field development took place on 640 acre units, with subsequent infill programs downsizing to 80 acre density. Testing of the Strawn formation in Sonora wells, for which the primary drilling objective was the Canyon formation, has been an attractive play for the Company because the Strawn lies less than 1,000 feet below the Canyon formation. Because of the closeness in depth, the cost to evaluate the Strawn formation while drilling for the Canyon formation is relatively minor. The Strawn production is generally commingled with the Canyon production stream. In 1996, the Company acquired over 10,000 gross acres in the Buckhorn horst block, a localized fault-bounded structural feature, which extends the Canyon and Strawn to the northeast. Pinnacle reef structures are targeted in this Strawn extension which are expected to have higher average reserves and initial daily production of up to 5 MMcf of natural gas.
Since 1993, the Company has continued an aggressive development program in the Sonora area. Through December 31, 1997, the Company had drilled 455 Canyon and Strawn wells with only 14 dry holes. The 1997 drilling program resulted in the drilling of 149 wells which in turn increased net daily production by 10% to 86 MMcfe at December 1997. For 1998, the Company plans to drill an additional 123 wells in Sonora. A majority of the wells proposed to be drilled are on relatively low risk locations which have not been assigned proved reserves. Since only a portion of the Company's Sonora acreage is developed on 40 acre density, the Company has identified over 575 undrilled locations on the Company's acreage of which 110 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. The Company believes that, subject to further study and drilling results, additional proved reserves will ultimately be attributed to many of the other locations. In addition to infill drilling potential, many of the Company's producing wells in the Sonora Area have recompletion possibilities in existing wellbores.
MID-CONTINENT AREA
The Company was actively involved in the Mid-Continent region when it was acquired by S.A. Louis Dreyfus et Cie and has subsequently acquired additional interests in the area through multiple acquisitions that have increased reserves with minimal additional administrative costs. The Company's properties in the Mid-Continent region are located in and along the northern shelf of the Anadarko basin in Western Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle, and in Kansas. Development of the Company's Mid-Continent region properties began in the late 1970's. Production is predominately natural gas from numerous formations of Pennsylvanian and Pre-Pennsylvanian age rock. Productive depths range from 3,000 to 17,000 feet.
Pre-Pennsylvanian reservoirs include the Chester, Mississippi and Hunton formations, with greater production from these formations occurring in highly fractured carbonate intervals. Pennsylvanian reservoirs include the Granite Wash, Red Fork, Atoka, Morrow and Springer sandstones. The stratigraphic nature of these reservoirs frequently provides for multiple targets in the same wellbores. Spacing in these formations is generally on 640 acres with extensive increased density drilling having occurred over the last 15 years.
SON OF BEVO. The Company is the operator and holds a 35% working interest in this project in Lipscomb County of the Texas Panhandle. The prolific Upper Morrow, at a depth of 10,000 feet, was deposited in a meandering river channel environment with gas stratigraphically trapped in point bars. These point bars can be up to 50 feet thick and have very good rock properties that yield high flow rates. Using 3-D seismic, the Company has successfully completed six of eight wells drilled in this area at initial flow rates ranging up to 5 MMcf per day. Three wells are planned for 1998.
BRADSHAW FIELD. The Bradshaw field encompasses approximately 250 square miles and is located approximately ten miles northwest of the Hugoton Field in Hamilton County, Kansas. The field produces gas from the Winfield, Fort Riley and Towanda sands of the Chase Group at depths ranging from 2,600 feet to 2,900 feet. The Company operates 137 wells in this field and owns an average working interest of 94%. Twelve wells are planned for 1998.
The Company has pursued an active low-risk infill drilling program in the Mid-Continent area over the past four years, including the drilling of 84 wells in 1997. Average net daily production improved 28% to 105 MMcfe as of December 1997 due to drilling and acquisition activity during the year. The Company plans to drill 110 wells in this area during 1998, with the primary development focus being the higher potential Morrow/Springer sand subcrop in the Watonga-Chickasha Trend. The Company has identified 300 undrilled locations in the Mid-Continent area, of which 109 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves.
WESTERN AREA
The Company is actively involved in drilling development and exploration wells in the Delaware basin of Southeast New Mexico and the Spraberry trend of West Texas. The primary drilling objectives in this region are the Delaware, Morrow, Spraberry, Wolfcamp and Tannehill sands.
DELAWARE FORMATION. The Delaware formation was deposited in broad, braided channel systems over most of the Delaware basin. The sands range in depth from 3,000 to 5,000 feet with multiple objectives in the Bell Canyon and Cherry Canyon. Over the past three years, the Company has pursued an active development program in the Happy Valley field in Eddy County of Southeast New Mexico to exploit the Delaware formation. Production is predominately oil with reserves ranging from 75,000 to 150,000 Bbls per well.
MORROW FORMATION. The Morrow formation consists of northwest to southeast trending fluvial systems exhibiting excellent porosity and permeability at depths between 10,000 to 12,500 feet. The Company continues to drill and participate in Morrow wells in the Artesia area which is situated along the northwest shelf of the Delaware basin. Morrow formation gas reserves can range up to six Bcf for a single well.
SPRABERRY TREND. The Spraberry trend is located in the West Texas counties of Martin, Midland, Glasscock, Upton, Reagan and Irion. The fields in the Spraberry trend are characterized by the production of both oil and gas from productive zones ranging from the Lower Clearfork formation at a depth of 4,500 feet, to the Dean formation at a depth of 7,000 feet, with the majority of the production from the Spraberry formation at a depth of 5,500 to 6,500 feet. The Spraberry formation, primarily an oil reservoir, produces from fractured sandstones and siltstones and is characterized by low porosity and permeability. These formation characteristics have encouraged operators to develop the area on 80 acre spacing. Over
the last three years, the Company has pursued an active infill drilling program in the Spraberry trend which will continue in 1998.
WOLFCAMP FORMATION. The Wolfcamp in the southern Delaware basin is deposited as a submarine fan sequence that is 200 to 800 feet thick and ranges in depth from 4,000 to 12,000 feet. The Wolfcamp is the primary target in the Company's development activities in the Brown Bassett area.
PITCHFORK RANCH. The Company has an option to explore on approximately 140,000 acres of the Pitchfork Ranch over the next two years. The Pitchfork Ranch is located in King and Dickens Counties, Texas. The Company is the operator with a 78% working interest. Target zones are the Tannehill sand at a depth of 4,500 feet and the Strawn Lime at 5,500 feet. The Tannehill sands were deposited as northeast to southwest trending channel sands and extend over most of the acreage. Production is generally found within point bars on structural highs or in stratigraphic traps. Fields within this meandering channel system of the Tannehill can have potential reserves of up to 2 MMBbls, with the opportunity for numerous fields to exist on the ranch. The Company completed a 30 square mile 3-D seismic project and successfully completed 4 of 7 Tannehill tests during 1997. Four additional exploratory tests are planned for 1998 in the initial seismic area. To the northeast of the initial shoot, the Company plans to conduct a 50 square mile 3-D seismic project during the second quarter of 1998.
During 1997, the Company drilled 69 wells in the Western area, resulting in a 19% increase in average daily production to 32.3 MMcfe as of December 1997. The Company has identified 500 undrilled locations in this region of which 201 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. Plans for 1998 include the drilling of 77 wells in this region.
GULF COAST AREA
YOAKUM GORGE AREA. The Company holds working interests ranging from 30% to 87.5% in 60,000 gross acres in this project located in Lavaca County, Texas. Approximately 200 square miles of high-fold 3-D seismic data was obtained in 1996 and 1997 which continues to be evaluated. The target zones are the shallow Miocene, Frio, Yegua and Upper Wilcox sands, ranging in depth from 3,500 to 8,000 feet and the deeper Lower Wilcox sands from 10,000 to 17,000 feet. The shallow sands were deposited in a fluvial environment and are often point bar sands with high porosity and permeability. These sands have a reserve potential ranging from .5 to 20 Bcf per well and are relatively easy to identify using 3-D seismic. The Company successfully completed 17 of 21 shallow tests during 1997 and plans to drill up to 15 additional wells during 1998.
In 1997, the Company accelerated its Lower Wilcox drilling program with the drilling of eight wells, which included three exploratory tests. The Lower Wilcox sands are part of an ancient deltaic system deposited across an unstable muddy continental shelf. The rapid subsidence of the underlying beds allowed accumulation of massive Wilcox sand packages with a high degree of structural complexity. These deeper structures present higher risk but have greater potential, ranging up to 100 Bcf per field. The Jacobs Ranch #1 discovery in the Cranz field logged approximately 180 feet of pay and had initial production of 7 MMcfe per day from 40 feet of perforations. In addition, five wells were completed in the S.W. Speaks field which have increased gross production in this field to approximately 23 MMcf per day, 5 MMcf net to the Company's ownership. Drilling plans for 1998 include the drilling of 20 Lower Wilcox wells in the Yoakum Gorge area, including six additional wells in the S.W. Speaks field.
During 1997, 35 wells were drilled by the Company in the Gulf Coast area and average net daily production as of December 1997 was 31 MMcfe. The Company has identified 100 undrilled locations in the Gulf Coast region of which 27 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. For 1998, 50 wells are planned to be drilled.
ARKLATEX AREA
SMACKOVER TREND. The Company's operations in the Smackover Trend of Southwestern Arkansas are focused primarily in the Midway and Buckner fields, both of which are operated by the Company. The Midway field is located in Lafayette County, Arkansas and produces oil from the Smackover formation at an average depth of 6,500 feet. The Company owns an average 79% working interest in this field. Midway is a mature waterflood unit that has produced approximately 80 million barrels of oil since 1942, or approximately 50% of the estimated original oil in place. Horizontal drilling technology is being utilized to significantly increase production levels and enhance oil recoveries. The Buckner field is located approximately 11 miles southeast of the Midway field in Lafayette County, Arkansas, and has produced approximately 12 million barrels of oil, or approximately 20% of the estimated original oil in place. In 1997, the Buckner field was unitized and a horizontal drilling program and waterflood project were initiated. Ten horizontal wells are planned for 1998.
COTTON VALLEY REEF TREND. The Company has varying working interests in 100,000 acres in the Cotton Valley Reef trend in Leon, Freestone, Smith, Anderson and Cherokee Counties of East Texas, an area that has attracted many of the largest independent producers. The targets are pinnacle reef build-ups at depths ranging from 13,000 to 17,000 feet that formed on the shelf slope in a shallow water environment during the Jurassic age. These reefs display a dimout on the Cotton Valley seismic event and therefore are identifiable on high quality 3-D seismic data. They are typically between 200 and 400 feet thick and can extend across 40 to 80 acres. Discoveries in the region by other operators have resulted in initial production rates ranging between 10 and 30 MMcf per day. In 1997, the Company's first Cotton Valley Reef test resulted in a discovery, the McMahon #4, which is presently producing at 10 MMcf per day. Three additional Cotton Valley Reef tests are planned for 1998.
OFFSHORE AREA
The Company owns working interests in ten operated and eight outside-operated oil and gas production platforms and 174,000 acres in the Gulf of Mexico. The more significant of these properties are described as follows.
TEXAS STATE WATERS. The Company owns an average 79% working interest in more than 38,000 gross acres in the Texas State Waters area. Two thousand square miles of 3-D seismic data has been collected in this area and the Company is commencing a five prospect drilling program in 1998. High-quality 3-D seismic information for this offshore area previously was unavailable due to the inability of vessels towing seismic cables to operate in less than 60 feet of water without damaging the seismic equipment. The advent of ocean-bottom cabling has made the acquisition of high-quality 3-D seismic information economically feasible. The Company has identified 16 exploration prospects in the shallow waters offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and plans to drill at least 5 prospects in 1998.
HIGH ISLAND BLOCK 116. High Island Block 116 is located in shallow federal waters, offshore Texas. The Company owns a 44% non-operated working interest in this block which produces from the Lower Miocene sands at an approximate depth of 10,000 feet. At December 31, 1997 this block had average net daily production of 14.9 MMcfe.
EAST CAMERON BLOCK 328. East Cameron Block 328 is located in federal waters, offshore Louisiana, in approximately 240 feet of water. The block is on the flank of a large salt feature with multiple sands located in several fault blocks. Production is from the Trim A, Trim S and the HB-1 sands. On April 1, 1997, a blowout and fire occurred during the drilling of a horizontal development well at East Cameron Block 328. No personnel were injured in the accident. The upper structure of the platform, however, was severely damaged. The well was successfully capped and the four remaining wells on the platform were secured. The production deck was removed and dismantled and certain production equipment has been salvaged. The Company is rebuilding the production deck and expects to restore production from the
platform in the second quarter of 1998. The platform was producing at approximately 11.4 MMcfe per day prior to the blowout. An additional well has been drilled and completed, with production awaiting the completion of the platform.
WEST DELTA 152. The Company owns between a 20% and a 39% non-operated working interest in West Delta 152 which has 17 producing wells. The wells produce from an eight-pile, 24-slot platform located in 380 feet of water approximately 40 miles southwest of Venice, Louisiana. West Delta 152 had average net daily production of 8.3 MMcfe in December 1997.
RESERVES
The following table sets forth the estimated net quantities of the Company's proved and proved developed reserves as of December 31 for each year presented and the estimated future net revenues and Present Values attributable to total proved reserves at such dates.
PROVED RESERVES
- ------------------------
(1) The year-end prices used to estimate future net revenues include the effects of the Company's Fixed-Price Contracts which have escalating fixed prices. Estimated proved reserve quantities have been determined without regard to such contracts.
No estimates of the Company's proved reserves comparable to those included herein have been included in reports to any federal agency other than the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 1997 are based upon studies prepared by the Company's staff of engineers and reviewed by Ryder Scott Company, independent petroleum engineers. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic benefit that may be derived from the Company's Fixed-Price Contracts. Such calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines. The estimated future net revenues and Present Value, as adjusted for Fixed-Price Contracts, were based on the engineers' production volume estimates with price adjustments based on the terms of the Company's Fixed-Price Contracts as of
December 31, 1997. The amounts shown do not give effect to indirect expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expense or to depletion, depreciation and amortization.
The Company estimates that if all other factors (including the estimated quantities of economically recoverable reserves) were held constant, a $1.00 per Bbl change in oil prices and a $.10 per Mcf change in gas prices from those used in calculating the Present Value would change such Present Value by $16 million and $29 million, respectively.
The prices used in calculating the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves are determined using the Company's Fixed-Price Contracts for the corresponding volumes and production periods adjusted for estimated location and quality differentials. These prices are on average higher than spot market prices at December 31, 1997. If such Fixed-Price Contracts were not in effect and the Company used December 31, 1997 wellhead prices, the estimated future net revenues attributable to proved reserves and the Present Value thereof would be $1.9 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. The reserve data set forth herein represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimate. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.
For further information on reserves, future net revenues and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere herein.
COSTS INCURRED AND DRILLING RESULTS
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the costs incurred by the Company in its acquisition, exploration and development activities during the periods indicated.
COSTS INCURRED
- ------------------------
(1) Proved and unproved property acquisition costs for 1997 include $339.9 million and $98.0 million, respectively, of allocated American Acquisition purchase price. See "Recent Developments--American Exploration."
The Company drilled or participated in the drilling of wells as set out in the table below for the periods indicated.
WELLS DRILLED
As of December 31, 1997, the Company was involved in the drilling, testing or completing of 16 gross (7 net) development wells.
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the Company's developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 1997. Excluded is acreage in which the Company's interest is limited to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests.
ACREAGE
PRODUCTIVE WELL SUMMARY
The following table sets forth the Company's ownership in productive wells at December 31, 1997. Gross oil and gas wells include 171 wells with multiple completions. Wells with multiple completions are counted only once for purposes of the following table.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS
TITLE TO PROPERTIES
The Company believes that it has satisfactory title to its properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions which, in the opinion of the Company, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of its properties. The Company performs extensive title review in connection with acquisitions of proved reserves and has obtained title opinions on substantially all of its material producing properties. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, only a perfunctory title examination is performed in connection with acquisition of leases covering undeveloped properties. Generally, prior to drilling a well, a more thorough title examination of the drill site tract is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to significant title defects, if any, before proceeding with operations.
The Company's oil and gas properties are subject to royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits, working and other similar interests and contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry. Except as otherwise indicated, all information presented herein is presented net of such interests. The Company's properties are also subject to liens for current taxes not yet due and other encumbrances. The Company believes that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business. Approximately 27 Bcfe of the Company's oil and gas properties are mortgaged to a Fixed-Price Contract counterparty, securing the Company's performance under such contract.
ITEM 3