ITEM 2 -- PROPERTIES
GENERAL
Our oil and gas acquisition, exploration and development activities are conducted mainly in our core areas: the Permian Region which includes west Texas, southeast New Mexico and the San Juan Basin; the Mid-Continent Region which includes Oklahoma, Kansas, the panhandle of Texas, east Texas, southwest Arkansas and north Louisiana; and the Gulf Coast Region which includes south Texas and offshore Gulf of Mexico. Proved reserves as of December 31, 2000 consisted of 33 MMBbls of oil and 1.6 Tcf of natural gas, totaling 1.8 Tcfe. We have ownership interests in approximately 10,000 producing wells, and we operate approximately 3,900 of these wells. Our operated wells contain 79% of our total proved reserves. Net average daily production during 2000 was 7.8 MBbls of oil and 327.5 MMcf of natural gas, or 374.4 MMcfe. We drilled 452 developmental oil and gas wells, of which 426 wells, or 94%, were completed as commercial producers, and nine exploratory wells, of which five wells, or 56%, were successfully completed, during 2000.
We have allocated $290 million for our 2001 drilling program, subject to revision based upon oil and gas prices, proved reserve acquisitions and other factors. Approximately $64 million of this total, or 22%, has been allocated to exploration activities and $226 million, or 78%, has been allocated to development activities. We expect that this drilling expenditure will result in the drilling of about 590 wells, including 20 exploratory wells and 570 development wells. See "Item 7 -- Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Outlook for Fiscal Year 2001."
CORE AREAS
The following table sets forth certain information regarding our activities in each of our principal producing areas as of December 31, 2000:
CORE AREAS
PERMIAN REGION
We are actively involved in development and exploration activities in several areas within the Permian Region. These areas include the Sonora area of west Texas and the Delaware Basin of southeast New Mexico, among others. Our properties in the Permian Region contain 906 Bcfe of proved reserves, representing approximately one-half of our total reserve base, in 5,668 wells. We drilled 354 wells in the Permian Region in 2000 and daily production averaged 130 MMcfe per day. We have identified 1,205 potential locations in this region of which 478 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. Plans for this region in 2001 include the drilling of approximately 430 wells and a total investment of $119 million, including acreage and seismic acquisition.
SONORA AREA
The Sonora area is located in the west Texas counties of Schleicher, Crockett, Sutton and Edwards. It is primarily comprised of five fields: Sawyer, Shurley Ranch, MMW, Aldwell Ranch and Whitehead, which are located on the northeast side of the Val Verde Basin of west central Texas. We own an average 60% working interest in 3,497 wells and operate 2,038 of these wells. In our operated wells, we own an average 98% working interest. Net daily production from the Sonora area during 2000 averaged 95 MMcfe per day. Production is predominately from the Canyon formation at depths ranging from 2,500 to 6,500 feet and the Strawn formation at depths ranging from 7,000 to 9,000 feet.
CANYON FORMATION. Natural gas in the Canyon formation is stratigraphically trapped in lenticular sandstone reservoirs and the typical Sonora area well encounters numerous such reservoirs over the formation's gross thickness of approximately 1,500 feet. The Canyon reservoirs tend to be discontinuous and to exhibit low porosity and permeability, characteristics which reduce the area that can be effectively drained by a single well. These characteristics have encouraged Canyon infill drilling. Initial wells were drilled on 640 acre drilling units, but well performance characteristics have shown that denser well spacing is necessary for effective drainage. We continue to drill infill wells in these units and, in some areas, the Canyon is developed on 40 acre spacing.
STRAWN FORMATION. The Strawn formation, a shallow-marine, fossiliferous limestone, produces natural gas from fractures and irregularly distributed porosity trends draped across anticlinal features. Original field development took
place on 640 acre units, with subsequent infill programs downsizing some areas to 80 acre density. Testing of the Strawn formation in Sonora wells, for which the primary drilling objective was the Canyon formation, has been an attractive play for us. Because the Strawn formation lies less than 1,000 feet below the Canyon formation, the incremental cost to evaluate the Strawn has been relatively minor. Strawn production is generally commingled with the Canyon production stream.
We have maintained an aggressive development drilling program in the Sonora area since 1993, having drilled 917 Canyon and Strawn wells with only 29 dry holes. The 2000 drilling program resulted in the drilling of 210 wells, 204 of which were completed as commercial producers. We plan to drill approximately 300 wells in Sonora during 2001, the majority of which are relatively low risk locations. We have identified over 1,000 potential locations on our acreage, of which 407 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. Subject to further study and drilling results, we believe additional proved reserves will ultimately be attributed to many of the other locations. In addition to infill drilling potential, a number of recompletion possibilities are present in existing wellbores.
SOUTHEAST NEW MEXICO
We are also active in southeastern New Mexico in the Delaware Basin, where the primary objectives are the Morrow sand and the Wolfcamp carbonate. The Morrow sands are deposited in fluvial channels which trend from northwest to southeast. The Wolfcamp carbonate in our area of interest is deposited in deep water alluvial fans along a major reef complex and is primarily oil production. These reservoirs exhibit excellent porosity and permeability at depths between 10,000 and 15,000 feet. These objectives also lend themselves to the use of 3D seismic technology and computerized mapping. It is anticipated that approximately 55 wells will be drilled in this region in 2001.
MID-CONTINENT REGION
We have been actively involved in the Mid-Continent Region since our inception and over the past ten years have acquired substantial additional acreage and proved reserves in the area through multiple synergistic acquisitions. We operate approximately 1,370 wells in the Mid-Continent Region. Our properties are located in and along the northern shelf of the Anadarko Basin in western Oklahoma, in the deeper Anadarko Basin in the Texas panhandle, and in Kansas. This region also includes properties in the Smackover Trend in southern Arkansas and properties in east Texas. Development of our Mid-Continent Region properties began in the late 1970's. Production is predominately natural gas from productive formations of Pennsylvanian and Pre-Pennsylvanian age rock. Productive depths range from 3,000 to 17,000 feet. Pre-Pennsylvanian reservoirs include the Chester, Mississippi and Hunton formations, with greater production from these formations occurring in highly fractured carbonate intervals. Pennsylvanian reservoirs include the Granite Wash, Red Fork, Atoka, Morrow and Springer sandstones. The stratigraphic nature of these reservoirs frequently provides for multiple targets in the same wellbores. Spacing in these formations is generally on 640 acres with extensive increased density drilling having occurred over the last 15 years. Our two primary areas of focus in the Mid-Continent are the Watonga-Chickasha Trend in central Oklahoma and the Tuttle field in southern Oklahoma.
We have pursued an active low-risk infill drilling program in the Mid-Continent area over the past five years, including the drilling of 61 wells in 2000. Average net daily production during 2000 was 104 MMcfe per day for this region. We have ownership in 3,368 wells with proved reserves of 577 Bcfe. We have identified 745 potential locations in the Mid-Continent Region, of which 216 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. We plan to drill approximately 115 wells in this area during 2001.
WATONGA-CHICKASHA TREND
The Morrow/Springer sands located in central Oklahoma were deposited as bars and channels along an ancient coast line more than 350 miles long. These sands exhibit excellent porosity and permeability at depths of 10,000 to 13,000 feet. Multiple objectives of up to a dozen sands have allowed increased drilling from one well per 640 acres to as many as four wells per 640 acres. The majority of the wells drilled in this trend are lower risk development wells. We plan to drill at least two exploratory tests seeking to discover new bars or channels and approximately 40 development wells during 2001.
TUTTLE FIELD
The primary objectives in the Tuttle field are the Mississippi, Mayes, Skinner and Hunton sands, with the total depth of wells drilled in this field averaging 10,000 feet. We operate 131 gross wells in the field and own an average 53%
working interest. During 2000, we successfully completed 12 wells and significantly increased our ownership through an acquisition late in the third quarter. Net daily production during 2000 averaged 9 MMcfe per day. We plan to drill approximately 15 development wells in this field in 2001.
SMACKOVER TREND. Our operations in the Smackover Trend of southwestern Arkansas are focused primarily in the Midway field, which we operate. The Midway field is located in Lafayette County, Arkansas and produces oil from the Smackover formation at an average depth of 6,500 feet. We own an average 81% working interest in this waterflood unit.
GULF COAST REGION
We made our first acquisition in the Gulf Coast Region in 1991 and began development drilling activities in this area in 1992. We are now actively involved in an extensive exploration and development program in south Texas and, to a lesser extent, offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. Our properties in this region number 927 wells and include 325 Bcfe of proved reserves. We drilled 46 wells in the Gulf Coast Region during 2000 and daily production averaged 140 MMcfe per day. We have identified 174 potential locations in this region of which 76 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. Plans for this region in 2001 include the drilling of approximately 45 wells and a total investment of $106 million, including acreage and seismic acquisition.
LAVACA COUNTY AREA
We began our involvement in Lavaca County, Texas, in 1996 to explore and drill primarily for the Lower Wilcox formation. Secondary targets include the shallower Upper Wilcox, Miocene, Frio and Yegua targets. Working interests in these projects, including the Yoakum Gorge and S.W. Speaks projects, initially ranged from 25% to 35%. Subsequent acquisitions in 1997, 1998 and 2000 have more than doubled our interests in these fields and have expanded our position in the Wilcox Trend further to the east to include the Provident City field.
We now hold working interests ranging from 30% to 100% in 65,000 gross acres in Lavaca County. Since this project began, we have participated in 76 Lower Wilcox wells, over 80% of which have been successfully completed as producers. Approximately 1,200 square miles of high-fold 3D seismic data has been acquired since 1996 which continues to be evaluated. The target zones are the Lower Wilcox sands from 11,000 to 17,000 feet and the shallow Miocene, Frio, Yegua and Upper Wilcox sands ranging in depth from 3,500 to 8,000 feet.
Our Lower Wilcox drilling program in 2000 resulted in the successful completion of 26 wells, including five exploratory tests. The Lower Wilcox sands are part of an ancient deltaic system deposited across an unstable muddy continental shelf. The rapid subsidence of the underlying beds allowed accumulation of massive Wilcox sand packages with a high degree of structural complexity. These deep structures have significant potential, ranging up to 200 Bcf per field. Production rates for wells drilled in this program have ranged as high as 40 MMcfe per day. Drilling plans for 2001 include approximately 45 Lower Wilcox wells in Lavaca County, of which 13 are expected to be exploratory.
WILCOX TREND
As an extension to our Wilcox success in Lavaca County, we acquired leasehold positions in Zapata, Goliad and Webb Counties during 1999. In the En Seguido field located in Zapata County, we drilled the Laura Lopez #1 well, which was completed at a rate of 16 MMcf of natural gas per day. An offset development well was completed during 2000 at a rate of over 40 MMcf of natural gas per day. Three additional development wells were completed in this field during 2000 at a combined rate of 16 MMcf per day. Up to three additional En Seguido wells are planned for 2001. In addition to this En Seguido field activity, we completed two Wilcox tests on the W. Martinez prospect, also in Zapata County, which is ten miles to the north of En Seguido. Initial production for these two wells was a combined 12 MMcf per day. In total, we own approximately 15,000 gross acres in Zapata County with working interests ranging from 38% to 100%. We also own 500 square miles of 3D seismic information in Zapata County and plan to drill a total of six development wells and three exploratory wells in 2001.
In Goliad County, we acquired approximately 3,100 gross acres in two prospects, the Cologne and Swickheimer prospects. Our working interests in these prospects range from 37% to 54%. Two exploratory tests for the Lower Wilcox were completed in 2000 for a combined rate of 12 MMcf of natural gas per day. At least one additional exploratory test is planned for 2001 in the Cologne prospect.
OFFSHORE AREA
We own working interests in seven operated and nine outside-operated oil and gas production platforms and 200,000 acres in the Gulf of Mexico. Average net daily production from our offshore properties was 34 MMcfe per day in 2000.
TEXAS STATE WATERS. We own an average 80% working interest in more than 50,000 gross acres in the Texas State Waters area. In addition, we have acquired 3,000 square miles of 3D seismic data in this offshore area. We have identified several exploration prospects in the shallow waters offshore in the Gulf of Mexico, at least two of which we plan to drill in 2001.
HIGH ISLAND 45. High Island Block 45 is located in shallow federal waters, offshore Texas. We are the operator and own an 83% working interest in this block which produces from the Lower Miocene sands at an approximate depth of 11,000 feet. This platform averaged net daily production of 11 MMcfe during 2000.
RESERVES
The following table presents the estimated net quantities of our proved and proved developed reserves, and the estimated future net revenues, and the estimated present values attributable to total proved reserves for each of the preceding five years.
No estimates of our proved reserves comparable to those included herein have been included in reports to any federal agency other than the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Our estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 2000 are based upon studies prepared by our staff of engineers and reviewed by Ryder Scott Company, independent petroleum engineers. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic impact that may result from our fixed-price contracts. These calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines. The estimated future net revenues and present values were based on the engineers' production volume estimates as of each year-end. The amounts shown do not give effect to indirect expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expense or to depletion, depreciation and amortization.
The significant increase in estimated future net revenues and present value as of December 31, 2000 primarily resulted from a 177% increase in year-end natural gas prices. We estimate that if all other factors (including the estimated quantities of economically recoverable reserves) were held constant, a $1.00 per Bbl change in oil prices and a $.10 per Mcf change in gas prices from those used in calculating the present value of future net revenues would change
the present value by $16 million and $67 million, respectively.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and their values, and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond our control. The reserve information shown is estimated. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, the precision of the engineering and geological interpretation, and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. The estimates of reserves, future cash flows and present value are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, and are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, cash flows, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and natural gas reserves may vary substantially from our estimates. Also, the use of a 10% discount factor for reporting purposes may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our business or the oil and natural gas industry in general are subject.
Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic conditions, including oil and natural gas prices in existence at the date of assessment. A reduction in oil and gas prices not only would reduce the value of any proved reserves, but also might reduce the amount of oil and gas that could be economically produced, thereby reducing the quantity of reserves. Our reserves and future cash flows may be subject to revisions, based upon changes in economic conditions, including oil and natural gas prices, as well as due to production results, results of future development, operating and development costs, and other factors. Downward revisions of our reserves could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results.
For further information on reserves, future net revenues and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere in this document.
COSTS INCURRED AND DRILLING RESULTS
The following table presents certain information regarding the costs incurred in our acquisition, exploration and development activities for each of the preceding five years.
-------------------------------
(1) - Proved and unproved property acquisition costs for 1997 include $339.9 million and $98.0 million, respectively, of allocated American Exploration acquisition purchase price.
Proceeds from the sale of oil and gas properties for this same five-year period were as follows: 2000: $11.2 million; 1999: $12.4 million; 1998: $14.3 million; 1997: $27.7 million; and 1996: $.7 million.
We drilled or participated in the drilling of wells as set out in the table below for the periods indicated.
As of December 31, 2000 we were involved in the drilling, testing or completing of 14 gross (8 net) development wells. No exploratory wells were in progress at December 31, 2000.
ACREAGE
The following table presents our developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 2000. Excluded is acreage in which our interest is limited to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests.
PRODUCTIVE WELL SUMMARY
The following table presents our ownership in productive wells at December 31, 2000. Gross oil and gas wells include 172 wells with multiple completions. Wells with multiple completions are counted only once for purposes of the following table.
TITLE TO PROPERTIES
We believe that we have satisfactory title to our properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions which, in our opinion, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of our properties. We perform extensive title review in connection with acquisitions of proved reserves and have obtained title opinions on substantially all of our material producing properties. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, only a perfunctory title examination is performed in connection with acquisition of leases covering undeveloped properties. Generally, prior to drilling a well, a more thorough title examination of the drill site tract is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to significant title defects, if any, before proceeding with operations.
Our oil and gas properties are subject to royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits, working and other similar interests and contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry. Except as otherwise indicated, all
information presented herein is presented net of such interests. Our properties are also subject to liens for current taxes not yet due and other encumbrances. We believe that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.
ITEM 3