Item 2. Properties
General
The Company's oil and gas acquisition, exploration and development activities are conducted mainly in its Core Areas: the Permian Region of West Texas, Southeast New Mexico and the San Juan Basin; the Mid-Continent Region of Oklahoma, Kansas, the Panhandle of Texas, East Texas, Southwest Arkansas and North Louisiana; and the Gulf Coast Region which includes South Texas and Offshore Gulf of Mexico. Proved reserves as of December 31, 1999 consisted of 28 MMBbls of oil and 1.3 Tcf of natural gas, totaling 1.5 Tcfe. At this date, the Company had ownership interests in approximately 9,400 producing wells. The Company operates approximately 3,400 of these wells which contain 83% of its total proved reserves. Net daily production during 1999 was 8.1 MBbls of oil and 295.8 MMcf of natural gas, or 344.6 MMcfe. The Company drilled 213 developmental oil and gas wells, of which 196 wells, or 92%, were completed as commercial producers, and 16 exploratory wells, of which 14 wells, or 88%, were successfully completed, during 1999.
The Company has allocated $210 million for its 2000 drilling program, subject to revision based upon oil and gas prices, proved reserve acquisitions and other factors. Approximately $60 million of this total, or 29%, has been allocated to exploration activities and $150 million, or 71%, has been allocated to development activities. It is expected that this drilling expenditure will result in the drilling of about 350 wells, including 25 exploratory wells and 325 development wells. See "Item 7 - -Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Outlook for Fiscal Year 2000."
Core Areas
The following table sets forth certain information regarding the Company's activities in each of its principal producing areas as of December 31, 1999:
Core Areas
Permian Region
The Company is actively involved in development and exploration activities in several areas within the Permian Region. These areas include the Sonora Area and the Delaware Basin of Southeast New Mexico, among others. The Company's properties in the Permian Region contain 706 Bcfe of proved reserves, nearly one-half of the Company's total reserve base, in 4,295 wells. The Company drilled 148 wells in the Permian Region in 1999 and daily production averaged 109 MMcfe per day. The Company has identified 850 undrilled locations in this region of which 310 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. Plans for this region in 2000 include the drilling of approximately 258 wells and a total investment of $62 million, including acreage and seismic acquisition.
Sonora Area
The Sonora area is located in the West Texas counties of Schleicher, Crockett, Sutton and Edwards. It is comprised of five fields: Sawyer, Shurley Ranch, MMW, Aldwell Ranch and Whitehead, which are located on the northeast side of the Val Verde Basin of West Central Texas. The Company has an average 88% working interest in 1,785 wells, most of which are Company operated. Daily production from the Sonora area during 1999 averaged 85 MMcfe per day. Production is predominately from the Canyon formation at depths ranging from 2,500 to 6,500 feet and the Strawn formation at depths ranging from 7,000 to 9,000 feet.
Canyon Formation. Natural gas in the Canyon formation is stratigraphically trapped in lenticular sandstone reservoirs and the typical Sonora Area well encounters numerous such reservoirs over the formation's gross thickness of approximately 1,500 feet. The Canyon reservoirs tend to be discontinuous and to exhibit low porosity and permeability, characteristics which reduce the area that can be effectively drained by a single well. These characteristics have encouraged operators in the area to undertake Canyon infill drilling programs. Initial wells were drilled on 640 acre drilling units, but well performance characteristics have indicated that denser well spacing is necessary for effective drainage. The Company continues to drill infill wells in these units and, in some areas, fields are now developed on 40 acre spacing.
Strawn Formation. The Strawn formation, a shallow-marine, fossiliferous limestone, produces natural gas from fractures and irregularly distributed porosity trends draped across anticlinal features. Original field development took place on 640 acre units, with subsequent infill programs downsizing some areas to 80 acre density. Testing of the Strawn formation in Sonora wells, for which the primary drilling objective was the Canyon formation, has been an attractive play for the Company because the Strawn lies less than 1,000 feet below the Canyon formation. Because of the closeness in depth, the incremental cost
to evaluate the Strawn formation has been relatively minor. The Strawn production is generally commingled with the Canyon production stream.
The Company has maintained an aggressive development drilling program in the Sonora Area since 1993, having drilled 707 Canyon and Strawn wells with only 23 dry holes. The 1999 drilling program resulted in the drilling of 127 wells, 124 of which were completed as commercial producers. The Company plans to drill approximately 150 wells in Sonora during 2000, the majority of which are relatively low risk locations. The Company has identified over 575 potential locations on its acreage, of which 266 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. Subject to further study and drilling results, the Company believes additional proved reserves will ultimately be attributed to many of the other locations. In addition to infill drilling potential, many of the Company's producing wells in the Sonora Area have recompletion possibilities in existing wellbores.
Southeast New Mexico
The Company is also active in southeastern New Mexico in the Delaware Basin, where the primary objectives are the Morrow and Wolfcamp carbonate. The Morrow sands are deposited in fluvial channels which trend from northwest to southeast. The Wolfcamp carbonate in the Company's area of interest is deposited in deep water alluvial fans along a major reef complex and is primarily oil production. These reservoirs exhibit excellent porosity and permeability at depths between 10,000 and 15,000 feet. These objectives also lend themselves to the use of modern technology and computer aided mapping. It is anticipated that approximately 10 wells will be drilled for these objectives in 2000.
Mid-Continent Region
The Company was actively involved in the Mid-Continent Region when it was acquired by S.A. Louis Dreyfus et Cie and has subsequently acquired substantial additional acreage and proved reserves in the area through multiple synergistic acquisitions. The Company operates approximately 1,260 wells in the Mid-Continent Region. The Company's properties are located in and along the northern shelf of the Anadarko Basin in western Oklahoma, in the deeper Anadarko Basin in the Texas Panhandle, and in Kansas. This region also includes properties in the Smackover Trend in Southern Arkansas and the Oak Hill field in East Texas. Development of the Company's Mid-Continent Region properties began in the late 1970's. Production is predominately natural gas from productive formations of Pennsylvanian and Pre-Pennsylvanian age rock. Productive depths range from 3,000 to 17,000 feet. Pre-Pennsylvanian reservoirs include the Chester, Mississippi and Hunton formations, with greater production from these formations occurring in highly fractured carbonate intervals. Pennsylvanian reservoirs include the Granite Wash, Red Fork, Atoka, Morrow and Springer sandstones. The stratigraphic nature of these reservoirs frequently provides for multiple targets in the same wellbores. Spacing in these formations is generally on 640 acres with extensive increased density drilling having occurred over the last 15 years. Two primary areas of focus in the Mid- Continent are the Watonga-Chickasha Trend in central Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle.
The Company has pursued an active low-risk infill drilling program in the Mid-Continent area over the past five years, including the drilling of 44 wells in 1999. Average net daily production was 108 MMcfe per day for this region in 1999. The Company has ownership in 3,446 wells with proved reserves of 461 Bcfe. The Company has identified 400 undrilled locations in the Mid-Continent Region, of which 148 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. The Company plans to drill approximately 60 wells in this area during 2000, with the primary development focus being the higher potential Morrow/Springer sand subcrop in the Watonga-Chickasha Trend.
Watonga-Chickasha Trend
The Morrow/Springer sands located in central Oklahoma were deposited as bars and channels along an ancient coast line more than 350 miles long. These sands exhibit excellent porosity and permeability at depths of 10,000 to 13,000 feet. Multiple objectives of up to a dozen sands have allowed increased drilling from one well per 640 acres to as many as four wells per 640 acres. The majority of the wells drilled in this trend are lower risk development wells. The Company plans to drill four exploratory tests seeking to discover new bars or channels and approximately 40 development wells during 2000.
Texas Panhandle
In the Texas Panhandle, the primary objective is the Morrow sand which was deposited in fluvial channels. Previous experience has shown that 3D seismic can help identify these sand channels. The Company completed a 40 square mile 3D seismic survey on the Munson Project in 1998, and in 1999, the Company acquired access to 140 square miles of additional 3D seismic data. This data is currently being processed and is expected to produce drilling locations for the year 2000. The Company has an approximate 50% working interest in this 40,000 acre project.
Smackover Trend
The Company's operations in the Smackover Trend of Southwestern Arkansas are focused primarily in the Midway field, which is operated by the Company. The Midway field is located in Lafayette County, Arkansas and produces oil from the Smackover formation at an average depth of 6,500 feet. The Company owns an average of 79% working interest in this mature waterflood unit.
Gulf Coast Region
The Company has been active in the Gulf Coast Region since its initial entry through an acquisition in 1991. Development drilling on these acquired properties began in 1992 and continued into 1999. Presently, the Company is actively involved in an exploration and development program in South Texas and offshore in the Gulf of Mexico. The Company's properties in this region number 663 wells and include 252 Bcfe of proved reserves. The Company drilled 26 wells in the Gulf Coast Region during 1999 and daily production averaged 120 MMcfe per day. The Company has identified 75 undrilled locations in this region of which 38 have been assigned proved undeveloped reserves. Plans for this region in 2000 include the drilling of approximately 32 wells and a total investment of $104 million, including acreage and seismic acquisition.
Lavaca County Area
The Company began its involvement in Lavaca County, Texas, in 1996 to explore and drill primarily for the Lower Wilcox formation. Secondary targets include the shallower Upper Wilcox, Miocene, Frio and Yegua targets. Working interests in these projects, including the Yoakum Gorge and S.W. Speaks projects, initially ranged from 25% to 35%. Subsequent acquisitions in 1997 and 1998 have more than doubled the Company's interests in these projects. The Company has additionally expanded its position in the Wilcox Trend further to the east to include the Provident City field.
The Company now holds working interests ranging from 30% to 87.5% in 60,000 gross acres in Lavaca County. Since this project began, the Company has participated in 50 Lower Wilcox wells, over 90% of which have successfully been completed as producers. Approximately 200 square miles of high-fold 3D seismic data was obtained in 1996 and 1997 which continues to be evaluated. An additional 50 square miles of 3D seismic was shot on the South Borchers prospect in late 1998 which is a southern extension to existing data. The Company is currently participating in a 60 plus square mile 3D shoot to the west of its current acreage holdings. The data will be available in the first quarter of 2000. The target zones are the Lower Wilcox sands from 10,000 to 17,000 feet and the shallow Miocene, Frio, Yegua and Upper Wilcox sands ranging in depth from 3,500 to 8,000 feet.
The Company's Lower Wilcox drilling program in 1999 resulted in the successful completion of 17 wells, including four exploratory tests. The Lower Wilcox sands are part of an ancient deltaic system deposited across an unstable muddy continental shelf. The rapid subsidence of the underlying beds allowed accumulation of massive Wilcox sand packages with a high degree of structural complexity. These deep structures have significant potential, ranging up to 100 Bcf per field. Production rates for wells drilled in this program have ranged as high as 30 MMcfe per day. Drilling plans for 2000 include approximately 20 Lower Wilcox wells in Lavaca County, of which five are expected to be exploratory.
Wilcox Trend
As an extension to its Wilcox success in Lavaca County, the Company acquired leasehold positions in Zapata, Goliad and Webb Counties during 1999. In the En Seguido field located in Zapata County, the Company drilled the Laura Lopez #1 well, which was completed at a rate of 12 MMcf of natural gas per day with 8,900 pounds flowing tubing pressure. An offset development well is currently being completed in this field. In addition to this En Seguido field activity, the Company is drilling a Wilcox test on the W. Martinez prospect, also in Zapata County, which is ten miles to the north of En Seguido. In total, the Company owns approximately 4,800 gross acres in Zapata County with working interests ranging from 38% to 100%. The Company plans to drill five wells in 2000 using its 100 square miles of 3D seismic.
In Goliad County, the Company acquired approximately 3,100 gross acres in two prospects, the Cologne and Swickheimer prospects. The Company's working interests in these prospects range from 37% to 54%. Exploratory tests for the Lower Wilcox are planned for both of these projects in 2000.
Vicksburg Trend
In South Texas, the late Oligocene Vicksburg formation is a prolific producer from shelf-edge delta sand reservoirs. The depositional environments responsible for these sands include delta flanks and their associated shore zones, strand plains and barrier systems. The extensively growth-faulted Vicksburg deltas within the Rio Grande embayment contain numerous anticlinal and fault closures and structural/stratigraphic combination trapping situations. During 1999, the Company acquired approximately 7,900 gross acres in the Tabasco prospect located in Hidalgo County with a net working interest of 75% and in early 2000 acquired approximately 1,300 gross acres in the Lopez Ranch prospect in Brooks County, with a net working interest of 50%. Exploratory tests for the Vicksburg sand are planned for both of these projects in 2000.
Offshore Area
The Company owns working interests in twelve operated and eight outside-operated oil and gas production platforms and 148,000 acres, and owns over three thousand square miles of 3D seismic data in the Gulf of Mexico. Average net daily production from the Company's offshore properties was 51 MMcfe per day in 1999.
Texas State Waters. The Company owns an average 79% working interest in more than 38,000 gross acres in the Texas State Waters area. In addition, the Company has acquired 3,000 square miles of 3D seismic data in this offshore area. High-quality 3D seismic information for the Texas State Waters previously was unavailable due to the inability of vessels towing
seismic cables to operate in less than 60 feet of water without damaging the seismic equipment. The advent of ocean-bottom cabling has made the acquisition of high-quality 3D seismic information economically feasible. The Company drilled one exploratory test in 1999, which appears productive on logs. Completion operations are currently underway. The Company has identified several exploration prospects in the shallow waters offshore in the Gulf of Mexico which it plans to drill in 2000.
High Island 116. High Island Block 116 is located in shallow federal waters, offshore Texas. The Company owns a 44% non-operated working interest in this block which produces from the Lower Miocene sands at an approximate depth of 10,000 feet. This block had average net daily production of 4 MMcfe during 1999. The Company is currently completing a new discovery drilled on this platform in 1999.
East Cameron Block 328. East Cameron Block 328 is located in federal waters, offshore Louisiana, in approximately 240 feet of water. The block is on the flank of a large salt feature with multiple sands located in several fault blocks. Production is from the Trim A, Trim S and the HB-1 sands. The platform produced 9 MMcfe per day during 1999.
High Island 45. High Island Block 45 is located in shallow federal waters, offshore Texas. The Company is the operator and owns an 83% working interest in this block which produces from the Lower Miocene sands at an approximate depth of 11,000 feet. This platform averaged net daily production of 11 MMcfe during 1999. The Company acquired additional interest in this block during 1999.
Reserves
The following table presents the estimated net quantities of the Company's proved and proved developed reserves, the Estimated Future Net Revenues, and the Present Values, as defined herein, attributable to total proved reserves for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 1999.
Proved Reserves
No estimates of the Company's proved reserves comparable to those included herein have been included in reports to any federal agency other than the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company's estimated proved reserves as of December 31, 1999 are based upon studies prepared by the Company's staff of engineers and reviewed by Ryder Scott Company, independent petroleum engineers. Estimated recoverable proved reserves have been determined without regard to any economic benefit that may be derived from the Company's Fixed-Price Contracts. Such calculations were prepared using standard geological and engineering methods generally accepted by the petroleum industry and in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission guidelines. The Estimated Future Net Revenues and Present Value were based on the engineers' production volume estimates as of December 31, 1999. The amounts shown do not give effect to indirect expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service and future income tax expense or to depletion, depreciation and amortization.
The Company estimates that if all other factors (including the estimated quantities of economically recoverable reserves) were held constant, a $1.00 per Bbl change in oil prices and a $.10 per Mcf change in gas prices from those used in calculating the Present Value would change such Present Value by $14 million and $57 million, respectively.
The prices used in calculating the Estimated Future Net Revenues attributable to proved reserves do not consider the Company's Fixed-Price Contracts for the corresponding volumes and production periods. These contract prices are on average higher than spot market prices at December 31, 1999. If Fixed-Price Contract pricing was used at December 31, 1999, the Estimated Future Net Revenues and the Present Value attributable to proved reserves would be $2.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. The reserve information shown herein is estimated. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates of different engineers often vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimate. Accordingly, reserve estimates often differ from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.
For further information on reserves, future net revenues and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing elsewhere herein.
Costs Incurred and Drilling Results
The following table presents certain information regarding the costs incurred by the Company in its acquisition, exploration and development activities for each of the five years in the period ended December 31, 1999.
Costs Incurred
(1) Proved and unproved property acquisition costs for 1997 include $339.9 million and $98.0 million, respectively, of allocated American Acquisition purchase price.
Proceeds from the sale of oil and gas properties for this same five-year period were as follows: 1999: $12.4 million; 1998: $14.3 million; 1997: $27.7 million; 1996: $.7 million; and 1995: $14.9 million.
The Company drilled or participated in the drilling of wells as set out in the table below for the periods indicated.
Wells Drilled
As of December 31, 1999 the Company was involved in the drilling, testing or completing of 10 gross (6 net) development wells and 1 gross (1 net) exploratory well.
Acreage
The following table presents the Company's developed and undeveloped oil and gas lease and mineral acreage as of December 31, 1999. Excluded is acreage in which the Company's interest is limited to royalty, overriding royalty and other similar interests.
Acreage
Productive Well Summary
The following table presents the Company's ownership in productive wells at December 31, 1999. Gross oil and gas wells include 160 wells with multiple completions. Wells with multiple completions are counted only once for purposes of the following table.
Productive Wells
Title to Properties
The Company believes that it has satisfactory title to its properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the oil and gas industry, subject to such exceptions which, in the opinion of the Company, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of its properties. The Company performs extensive title review in connection with acquisitions of proved reserves and has obtained title opinions on substantially all of its material producing properties. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, only a perfunctory title examination is performed in connection with acquisition of leases covering undeveloped properties. Generally, prior to drilling a well, a more thorough title examination of the drill site tract is conducted and curative work is performed with respect to significant title defects, if any, before proceeding with operations.
The Company's oil and gas properties are subject to royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits, working and other similar interests and contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry. Except as otherwise indicated, all information presented herein is presented net of such interests. The Company's properties are also subject to liens for current taxes not yet due and other encumbrances. The Company believes that such burdens do not materially detract from the value of such properties or from the respective interests therein or materially interfere with their use in the operation of the business.
Item 3.