ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The MOB Properties consist of 20 high quality MOBs directly owned by the Company, three MOBs indirectly-owned by the Company, an adjacent parking facility, a research and development building and two retail facilities. The ALF and SNF Properties consist of five ALFs, eight SNFs and two senior resident apartment complexes. As of January 31, 2002, the MOB Properties were 97.0% leased to over 425 tenants and the ALF and SNF Properties were 100% leased to operators or under contracts with management companies. The Company's MOB tenants are primarily established medical practitioners representing a cross section of medical practices.
DESCRIPTION OF THE MOB PROPERTIES AND ALF AND SNF PROPERTIES
MOB Properties
The Company, through its MOB operations, acquires, develops, manages and leases MOBs, a parking facility and two retail facilities. Developing and managing MOBs differs from developing and managing conventional office buildings due to the special requirements of physicians and their patients. Because doctors now perform a variety of medical procedures in their offices, many MOBs have become sophisticated ambulatory centers that allow for outpatient surgery and procedures. In addition, MOBs generally have higher maintenance requirements in the public areas due to heavy foot traffic, many short appointments that increase demand on parking facilities, the use of sophisticated medical equipment requiring increased plumbing and electrical capacity and expanded environmental regulations that impose more stringent restrictions on the disposal of medical waste. The management of MOBs also generally requires experience in specialized tenant improvements and higher levels of responsiveness required by medical practitioners. Additional important management functions include the placement of tenants to accommodate increased space needs and managing the tenant mix at properties to facilitate referrals by practitioners with different specialties within the building. The Company stresses meeting these and other special demands of MOB tenants.
ALF and SNF Properties
The Company, as part of its overall strategy, acquires, develops and leases ALFs and SNFs. The Company leases its ALFs and SNFs to third party senior care operators. The operation of ALFs and SNFs requires a high level of experience and expertise due to the specific needs of the residents and the complex administrative functions surrounding the admission and care of residents and the administering of government programs. The operators of ALFs and SNFs must also maintain a positive relationship with local hospitals and other medical providers in order to attract new residents. The Company considers all of the above factors when leasing its facilities to third party operators or hiring managers to operate its facilities.
The health care industry is facing various challenges, including increased government and private payor pressure to reduce medical delivery costs. Substantially all of the Company's tenants are in the medical profession and could be or have been adversely affected by the new Medicare prospective payment system, cost containment and other health care reform proposals. In the past two years, the Company has changed managers at two of its ALFs and six of its SNFs in response to financial difficulties encountered by the managers or dissatisfaction with the operating results of the managers. Any future proposals that limit access to medical care or reduce reimbursement for physicians' services may also impact the ability of the Company's tenants to pay rent. However, the Company believes that the aging population in the United States, combined with other recent trends in the health care industry, such as the performance of non-acute procedures outside of hospitals, could spur increased demand for space in full service MOBs that contain surgery centers and out-patient facilities, such as those owned by the Company.
The following tables set forth certain information regarding each of the MOB Properties and ALF and SNF Properties as of January 31, 2002. All of the MOB Properties and ALF and SNF Properties are held in fee by the Company or, in the case of jointly-owned properties, by the joint venture property partnership or limited liability company.
MOB Properties--Summary Data
- ---------------------------- See footnotes on page 9
ALF and SNF Properties--Summary Data
_________________________________________ /1)/ Rentable square feet includes space used for management purposes but does not include storage space. /2)/ Occupancy includes occupied space and space used for management purposes. Rented square feet includes space that is leased but not yet occupied. Occupancy figures have been rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent. /3)/ Rent is based on third-party leased space billed in January 2002; no rent is assumed from management space. /4)/ Occupancy is on a per-bed or unit basis. . /5)/ The Company acquired this property through foreclosure of its first deed of trust in March 2000. The facility is currently closed. /6)/ This facility opened in March 2002. /7)/ Total Annualized Base Rent is base rent per the lease agreement. However, total annualized base rent does not include additional rent that may be due to the Company in the form of a percentage of gross revenues as stipulated in the lease agreement.
MOB PROPERTIES
Six of the MOB Properties are located on North Bedford and North Roxbury Drives in the "Golden Triangle" area of Beverly Hills, California, near three major hospitals--Cedars Sinai Medical Center, Century City Hospital and UCLA Medical Center. The buildings feature high quality interior improvements, including rich wood paneling and brass hardware appointments, both in the common areas and in most of the doctors' offices. These six MOB Properties include twenty-one operating rooms. The 405, 416 and 436 North Bedford Drive buildings each have emergency back-up generators. Parking for these six MOB Properties is provided in the 415 North Bedford garage and in subterranean parking at 436 North Bedford and 435 North Roxbury Drives. Each of these MOBs has copper insulated pipe with sufficient capacity for medical use, electrical systems designed for extra load requirements and extensive security systems.
405 North Bedford Drive, Beverly Hills
The 405 North Bedford Drive MOB, built in 1947 and extensively remodeled in 1987, consists of approximately 42,000 rentable square feet in four stories plus a penthouse and a basement. The reinforced brick building, with ground floor retail space, features cherry wood paneled walls and brass hardware in the common areas and decorative concrete trim on the exterior.
415 North Bedford Drive, Beverly Hills
The 415 North Bedford Drive building is a four-level parking structure with approximately 5,700 square feet of ground floor retail space for seven tenants. The parking structure contains 316 spaces and is valet operated.
416 North Bedford Drive, Beverly Hills
The 416 North Bedford Drive property is a four-story, approximately 40,000 rentable square foot reinforced brick MOB with a basement and ground floor retail space. Built in 1946 and extensively remodeled in 1986, the building features oak paneled walls and moldings, brass hardware, tinted concrete borders on the exterior, and fourth floor skylights that provide an open, airy atmosphere in the hallway and in some of the suites.
435 North Bedford Drive, Beverly Hills
The 435 North Bedford Drive property is a four-story, approximately 52,000 rentable square foot reinforced brick and masonry MOB with a penthouse, basement, and ground floor retail space. Built in 1950 and extensively remodeled in 1984, the building features oak molding, wall sconces and paneling in the hallways plus stained runner boards and built-in stained hardwood cabinets in some of the medical office suites.
435 North Roxbury Drive, Beverly Hills
The 435 North Roxbury Drive property is a four-story, approximately 41,000 rentable square foot MOB with a penthouse, subterranean parking and retail space on the ground floor. The building, which was built in 1956 and extensively remodeled in 1983, features a reinforced brick and masonry exterior and raised, oak-stained paneling and molding in the hallways.
436 North Bedford Drive, Beverly Hills
The 436 North Bedford Drive property is a three-story, approximately 74,000 rentable square foot MOB with three levels of subterranean parking. Built in 1987, the building features ground floor retail and office space surrounding a central courtyard and balconies at selected locations on the second and third floors. The exterior is clad in rose color sandstone with cast stone and granite trim. The central courtyard features a cascading waterfall sculpture and stone pavers with intricate marble and stone patterns. Cherry wood paneled walls also line the elevator lobbies on all floors and portions of the hallways.
Sherman Oaks Medical Plaza, Sherman Oaks
The Sherman Oaks Medical Plaza is a seven-story, approximately 67,000 rentable square foot MOB, constructed in 1969, that is adjacent to the Sherman Oaks Hospital and Health Center, a 156-bed hospital which includes the major burn center for the San Fernando Valley. A $1 million capital improvement program renovating the building systems and common areas of the Sherman Oaks Medical Plaza was completed in 1993. The Company also owns the adjacent air rights and three-level parking structure behind the property which provides a total of 426 parking spaces. The land beneath the parking structure is owned by Sherman Oaks Hospital which also leases 150 parking spaces in the structure.
Irwindale Building, Irwindale
The Irwindale Building in Irwindale, California is a two-story, approximately 48,000 square foot research and development building, constructed in 1992, on a site that provides two parking areas with a total of 244 spaces. The Company converted this building from an MOB to an R&D building in 2001. Prior to 2001, this property was 100% leased to Cigna Healthcare of California ("Cigna"). Rent obligations under the lease were guaranteed by Cigna Health Care, Inc., the parent company of Cigna. The property was vacated in stages by Med Partners, a former sub-tenant of Cigna beginning in September 1998, but Med Partners continued to pay rent until December 1999. In December 1999, Cigna and Med Partners defaulted on the rent and the Company sued both Cigna and Med Partners to recover the delinquent rent payments. Furthermore, the Company received full possession of the building and re-leased the building to Autronics Corporation, a British-based electronics company. The lease with Autronics Corporation provides for monthly rent of $47,604 commencing July 1, 2001 with annual increases and expires on June 30, 2008. In January 2001, the Company settled its lawsuit with Cigna in exchange for a payment from Cigna totaling $4.1 million in settlement of all outstanding current and future amounts owed.
Coronado Plaza
Coronado Plaza is a three-story, approximately 40,000 rentable square foot office and retail complex located in Coronado, California. The building is located on the beach across the street from the Hotel Del Coronado and the majority of the second and third floor suites have unobstructed ocean views. The building has subterranean parking for 96 vehicles plus street parking surrounding the entire property.
Holy Cross Medical Plaza, Mission Hills
The Holy Cross Medical Plaza is situated on approximately 2.6 acres of the 15-acre campus of Holy Cross Medical Plaza, a 316-bed hospital. The campus also includes the Villa de la Santa Cruz SNF, another MOB, a magnetic resonance imaging center, and an outpatient diagnostic center. Built in 1985, the Holy Cross Medical Plaza is a three-story, approximately 72,000 square foot MOB occupied primarily by medical and dental
practitioners. A two-story parking structure and an open asphalt-paved lot can accommodate a total of 333 vehicles. The surrounding site is landscaped with grass, trees, shrubs and planter boxes.
St. Joseph's Professional Building, Burbank
The St. Joseph's Professional Building is a steel frame, brick-facade building, constructed in 1987, that features approximately 26,000 rentable square feet in two floors of office space over three levels of subterranean parking which can accommodate up to 100 vehicles. The building is located one-quarter of a mile from St. Joseph's Hospital and is directly across the street from the Walt Disney Company's world headquarters campus. Saint Joseph's Hospital includes 658 beds and is owned by the Sisters of Providence, an organization which owns other hospitals throughout North America.
Lyons Avenue Medical Building
The Lyons Avenue Medical Building is a two-story, approximately 48,000 rentable square foot MOB located in Valencia, California only 1/2 mile from the Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital. The building has subterranean parking and a two-story atrium entry. The building's excellent market position provides first class medical space for those doctors that do not need an association with the hospital.
Tustin--MOB I
The 14591 Newport Avenue building in Tustin, California is a two-story, approximately 18,000 rentable square foot MOB that was constructed in 1969 on a 1.2-acre site. The site is landscaped with grass lawns, shrubs, and trees and includes an asphalt-paved parking lot with approximately 105 parking spaces, representing a parking ratio of 5.8 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet of building area.
Tustin--MOB II
The 14642 Newport Avenue building in Tustin, California is a four-story, approximately 48,000 rentable square foot MOB, developed in 1985, that features a surgery center with three operating rooms, a pharmacy, and an industrial clinic on the first floor. Medical offices are located on all of the other floors.
Regents Medical Center, La Jolla
The Regents Medical Center is a three-story, approximately 65,000 rentable square foot MOB situated on approximately 2.6 acres in the University Town Center area of San Diego, near the University of California, San Diego. The building, which was constructed in 1989, has ground level retail spaces, two upper floors of medical offices, and subterranean and ground level parking that can accommodate a total of 285 vehicles.
Pier One Retail Center
The Pier One Retail Center is a one-story, 9,100 rentable square foot retail facility built by the Company in 1998 in Aliso Viejo, California. The building is 100% leased to Pier One Imports, Inc. for ten years on a triple net basis. The lease provides for monthly rent of $15,000.
Pacific Park
The Pacific Park building in Aliso Viejo, California is an approximately 23,000 rentable square foot MOB, developed by the Company in 1999. The building was completed in December 1999 and opened in January 2000. A major not-for-profit medical provider occupies 16,950 square feet (approximately 73.4%) of the rentable area of the building pursuant to a lease that provides for monthly rent of $35,000. The lease expires on December 31, 2009.
San Pedro Medical Plaza
The San Pedro Medical Plaza in San Pedro, California is an approximately 59,000 rentable square foot complex consisting of three MOBs. The buildings are located across the street from the San Pedro Peninsula Hospital and are situated on 7.85 acres incorporating a 383 space surface parking lot.
1095 Irvine Boulevard, Tustin
The 1095 Irvine Boulevard building in Tustin, California consists of approximately 10,000 rentable square feet and was redeveloped in 1995 as a primary health care center for physicians who are part of the St. Joseph Hospital of Orange health care network. The property is leased to St. Joseph Hospital, Inc. under a net lease with a 15-year term, which began in August 1995, and provides for annual cost of living rent escalations limited to 3%. The lease provides for monthly rent of $18,000 and expires on July 31, 2010.
Santa Clarita Valley Medical Center
The Santa Clarita Valley Medical Center in Valencia, California is an approximately 43,000 square foot complex consisting of four one-story MOBs and one two-story MOB. The buildings are located on the Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital Campus, the only regional hospital in the area. The campus includes a 241-bed medical center and another MOB. An adjacent parking lot can accommodate up to 435 vehicles. The buildings are subject to a 60-year ground lease which includes payments of $11,000 per month.
Santa Clarita Valley Medical Center, Bldg F
Building F at the Santa Clarita Valley Medical Center is a two-story, approximately 44,000 square foot MOB built by the Company in 1999. The building is located on the Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital Campus and is adjacent to the other five MOBs owned by the Company on the Hospital Campus. Building F is the premier medical office building in the Santa Clarita Valley area. The building is subject to a 60-year ground lease that includes payments of $11,000 per month.
ALF AND SNF PROPERTIES
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA PROPERTIES - ------------------------------
Pacific Gardens Santa Monica
Pacific Gardens Santa Monica is a 92-unit, approximately 61,000 square foot, four-story ALF located in Santa Monica, California just two blocks from the beach. The building contains a 3-story, subterranean parking garage for 112 vehicles. The facility features a kitchen, 150-seat dining room, community room, TV lounges, library, beauty parlor and guest laundry areas on each floor. The facility is in close proximity to nearby shopping, restaurants and entertainment. Two major hospitals, Santa Monica Hospital Medical Center and St. John's Hospital are located within two miles of the property.
The Arbors at Rancho Penasquitos
The Arbors at Rancho Penasquitos is a 92-unit, approximately 52,000 square foot, three-story ALF located in Rancho Penasquitos, California. The building was originally built in 1988 as a Ramada Hotel. In 1998, the Company, in joint venture with Parsons House, LLC, purchased the property and converted it into The Arbors at Rancho Penasquitos. The facility opened in March 1999.
Each unit contains approximately 360 square feet and includes a small kitchenette. The facility contains a kitchen, dining room, activity room and a lounge. The 2.07-acre property also has a parking lot that can accommodate up to 114 cars.
Pacific Gardens Tarzana
Pacific Gardens Tarzana is a two-story, 80-unit, approximately 44,000 square foot ALF located in Tarzana, California. The facility features a formal dining room, two living rooms, pharmaceutical services, daily maid service and personal laundry service.
Prestige Assisted Living at Yorba Linda
Prestige Assisted Living at Yorba Linda is a two story, 80-unit, approximately 50,000 square foot ALF located in Yorba Linda, California. The project is a joint venture between the Company and Prestige Care Inc., an experienced ALF operator. Construction began on the facility in October 1999 and was completed in the first quarter of 2002.
ARIZONA PROPERTIES - ------------------
Maryland Gardens
Maryland Gardens is a 98-bed SNF located in Phoenix. The facility is situated on approximately 1.84 acres and consists of a 60-bed SNF and a 38-unit Alzheimers unit. On April 1, 2000, the Company terminated its lease with Stefan Healthcare, Inc. to operate the facility and signed a management contract with Campus Healthcare Group, a Phoenix, Arizona-based operator of SNFs. Because the facility is now under a management contract, rather than leased to an operator, all of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of the facility have been included in the consolidated financial results of the Company since April 1, 2000.
Maryland Gardens II
Maryland Gardens II is a 20-unit, approximately 30,000 square foot apartment complex acquired by the Company in May 1998. The building is located on a 1.0-acre lot adjacent to the Maryland Gardens SNF. The building, named the Winter Gardens Apartments, currently consists of residential tenants. The property also includes a 1.0-acre vacant parcel of land and a duplex building.
MARYLAND PROPERTIES - -------------------
St. Thomas More Nursing and Rehabilitation Center is a 216-bed SNF located in Hyattsville, Maryland. The Company acquired the property in January 2002. The Company previously held a first deed of trust on the property. The property has been managed by FutureCare, Inc., a Maryland-based owner and operator of SNFs, since 1997.
MASSACHUSETTS PROPERTIES - ------------------------
Hampden Properties
G&L Hampden, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired three nursing home properties in Massachusetts on October 28, 1997 from Hampden Nursing Homes, Inc. ("HNH"), a nonprofit corporation. Lenox Healthcare, Inc. ("Lenox") managed the three facilities from October 1998 through December 1999. In November 1999, Lenox filed for bankruptcy protection. The Company immediately moved to replace Lenox as the manager of the nursing homes. In January 2000, the Company received the bankruptcy court's permission to replace Lenox as the manager and a new management firm, a subsidiary of Roush & Associates ("Roush"), was immediately retained. Since acquiring the properties from HNH, HNH has held the licenses necessary to operate the facilities. In March 2000, the Company successfully transferred the licenses to G&L Massachusetts, LLC, a subsidiary of the Operating Partnership. G&L Massachusetts, LLC subsequently leased the three facilities from the Company while Roush
continued to manage them. The lease requires monthly payments of $175,000 net of property taxes, insurance and costs to maintain the facilities.
Riverdale Gardens
Riverdale Gardens Nursing Home, located in West Springfield, Massachusetts, is a 168-bed nursing facility currently licensed for 84 skilled care and 84 intermediate care beds with 16 private and 76 double occupancy rooms. Constructed in various stages between 1957 and 1975, the property consists of a single story 54,451 square foot building on approximately 3.85 acres as well as a 3,366 square foot single family residence on an adjacent 30,000 square foot lot.
Chestnut Hill
Chestnut Hill Nursing Home, located in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts, is a 123 bed nursing home consisting of 82 skilled nursing and 41 intermediate care beds with 15 private and 54 double occupancy rooms. The facility is a 49,198 square foot single story building constructed in 1984 on approximately 11.9 acres of land.
Mary Lyon
Mary Lyon Nursing Home, located in Hampden, Massachusetts, occupies a 28,940 square foot building situated on 3.7 acres and was originally constructed in 1959 and renovated in 1986. The facility is licensed for 100 beds of which 40 are skilled nursing and 60 are intermediate care beds with ten private rooms, 39 double occupancy rooms and three quadruple occupancy rooms.
NEBRASKA PROPERTY - -----------------
Parsons House on Eagle Run
Parsons House on Eagle Run is an 89-unit ALF located in Omaha. The facility was built through a joint venture between the Company and Parsons House, LLC and was completed in October 1999. The facility features private suites, dining room service, housekeeping and laundry services, transportation and a wide range of activities for its residents. The facility staff includes licensed nurses and caregivers who provide assistance with medication, bathing and dressing twenty-four hours a day.
WASHINGTON PROPERTY - -------------------
Pacific Care Center
Pacific Care Center is a 112-bed SNF located in Hoquiam. Prestige Care, inc. a Vancouver, Washington-based owner and operator of ALFs, has managed this facility since April 1, 2000. On December 1, 2000, after obtaining the license to operate the facility, Prestige Care, Inc. signed a five-year lease with the Company.
LEASES
MOB Properties
As of January 31, 2002, the MOB Properties were approximately 97.0% leased. New leases and extensions are normally granted for a minimum of three to five years and provide for annual rent increases. Office tenants generally have gross leases whereby rents may be adjusted for a tenant's proportionate share of any increases in the cost of operating the building. However, the Company has recently been leasing office space with provisions for the tenants to pay all utility costs directly. Most retail tenants have net leases and pay their share of all operating expenses including property taxes and insurance. The following is a lease expiration table setting forth the number, square feet and associated annual rent for those leases expiring in future years.
MOB PROPERTIES--LEASE EXPIRATIONS
__________________________________________
/1)/ Does not include month-to-month leases or vacant space. There are 62 month-to-month tenants who occupy approximately 67,000 square feet of space and pay approximately $135,000 per month in rent.
The Company was successful in obtaining lease renewals, achieving a weighted average renewal rate of approximately 83.0% on MOB leases that expired during 2001. Although there can be no assurance that this renewal level will be maintained, the Company believes this high renewal rate is due in part to the tendency of medical practitioners to continue to practice in the same space over a number of years. Also, the Company's tenants frequently invest large sums of money in equipment and fixtures for their offices. Furthermore, relocating a doctor's office can be disruptive to the patients who are familiar with the doctor's office location.
SENIOR CARE LOANS
Lending Operations
As of December 31, 2001, the Company had ten loans outstanding that total approximately $21.7 million before reserves of $4.5 million. The ten loans are described in the following paragraphs.
In October 1999, the Company provided $1.65 million of bridge financing for a $9.0 million apartment complex located in Tulsa, Oklahoma. The apartment complex was purchased by G&L Realty Partners, LLC ("G&L Partners"), a company controlled by Joe Carroll, a former Company employee, in which the Company has no equity interest. G&L Partners sold the apartment complex in December 1999 through a tax-exempt bond offering to NVHF Park Chase, LLC ("NVHF"), a not-for-profit company. As part of its loan repayment, the Company received approximately $380,000 in cash. For the remaining balance, the Company received $1.26 million in tax-exempt, subordinated B-bonds from the offering. The tax-exempt bonds are due in December 2029 and bear interest at 8.75% per annum. In addition, the Company received a 10-year, 10%, $560,000 unsecured note from NVHF Affiliates, LLC, the parent company of NVHF. The Company is also the guarantor on a $300,000 letter of credit in favor of NVHF Affiliates, LLC.
On June 17, 1996, the Company funded a $6.1 million loan for the acquisition of a SNF in Hyattsville, Maryland (the "St. Thomas More facility") by Heritage Care, Inc. ("Heritage Care"), a non-profit corporation. The Company received a first deed of trust on that facility and Carroll Manor, Inc. ("Carroll Manor"), the seller, received a second deed of trust which secured its $500,000 loan to Heritage Care. In addition to the $6.1 million, the Company made additional advances in 1997, totaling $2.6 million, to enable Heritage Care to meet its payroll and other current expenses necessary to remain in operation and thereby protect the value of the Company's security interest in the St. Thomas More facility. On March 31, 1999, the Company refinanced the $6.1 million loan, the $2.6 million in additional advances and all accrued interest into a $7.3 million,10-year, 12% promissory note secured by a first deed of trust on the St. Thomas More facility and a $2.7 million, 10-year, 12% unsecured promissory note. In September 1999, the Company purchased the $500,000 second deed of trust from Carroll Manor for $503,000, including all unpaid interest and late fees. In December 1999, the Company consolidated the $7.3 million first deed of trust and the $500,000 second deed of trust into an $7.8 million promissory note with the same terms and conditions as the previous $7.3 million promissory note. Principal and interest payments on the $7.8 million and the $2.7 million promissory notes due monthly total $135,000. In January 2002, Heritage Care obtained a new $11.9 million first deed of trust on the St. Thomas More facility and repaid the outstanding balances on the Company's two notes including accrued interest and other fees due. Immediately following the loan payoff, the Company purchased the outstanding stock of the subsidiary of Heritage Care that owned the facility. Upon obtaining title to the facility, the Company entered into a lease with FutureCare, Inc., an experienced Maryland operator of nursing homes that has been operating the facility for five years, to operate the facility.
In December 1997, the Company funded $4.6 million into an escrow, to be loaned to Aspen Paso Robles, Inc. ("Aspen") at the close of escrow. This loan was to be secured by (i) a 59-bed nursing and rehabilitation center in Chico, California; (ii) a 38-bed SNF in Paso Robles, California; and (iii) a 57-bed intermediate care center in Beaumont, California. The loan closed on February 25, 1998 although certain funds were held in escrow pending the close of the real estate in which the Chico and Beaumont facilities were located. The purchase of the Chico real estate subsequently closed. The funds for the Beaumont real estate remained in escrow until October 1998 at which time the Company secured the return of those funds and applied them to pay down the loan balance to $3.6 million. The borrower subsequently filed a Chapter 11 proceeding under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As of December 31, 1999, the remaining $3.6 million balance of the loan was in default and the two facilities securing the loan were closed. In March 2000, the Company obtained title to the two SNFs from the bankruptcy court. Because these two SNFs were not operating, the Company valued these two facilities at $1.2 million and an additional provision for doubtful notes receivable of $1.7 million was recorded. The Company is currently pursuing legal action against the borrower and other parties involved in the transaction in order to recover the remaining outstanding balance.
In addition to the notes discussed above, the Company had six other loans outstanding at December 31, 2001, with an aggregate face value of $6.8 million, excluding approximately $0.2 million of additional accrued, unpaid interest. The following is a summary of the six other loans as of December 31, 2001:
. $150,000 note secured by second deed of trust, interest payable semiannually at a rate of 10.0% per annum. This note is fully reserved and currently in default.
. $104,000 unsecured promissory note due July 1, 2000, interest payable at 10.0% per annum. This note is fully reserved and currently in default.
. $1,000,000 unsecured promissory note due September 1, 2000, interest payable at 10.0% per annum. This note is fully reserved and currently in default.
. $290,000 unsecured promissory note due April 11, 2003, interest payable at 10.0% per annum.
. Two unsecured promissory notes totaling $5,240,000 due on October 31, 2011, interest payable at 30-day LIBOR plus 7.5% per annum. The borrowers on these two notes are Daniel M. Gottlieb and Steven D. Lebowitz, the Company's chief executive officer and president, respectively.
As of December 31, 2001, the Company had reserves of $4.5 million for doubtful notes receivable. Management believes that $4.5 million is appropriate in relation to the status of the loans in the Company's portfolio as of March 31, 2002.
GLN
GLN was formed with Nomura Asset Capital Corp. ("Nomura") for the purpose of making short-term loans to third parties to purchase senior care facilities. Due to market conditions and other financial constraints, it does not appear likely that the Company or Nomura will use GLN to make future loans. As of December 31, 2001, GLN had one loan outstanding. In May 1997, GLN funded a secured loan of approximately $1.5 million to a limited partnership created to acquire a recreational vehicle ("RV") park in Florida for approximately $1.2 million. This loan bore interest at a rate of approximately 9.0% per annum and matured on May 1, 1999. The loan provided for monthly payments of interest only. As of December 31, 2001, the borrower was in default on the mortgage payments. In January 2002, the borrower sold the property for approximately $1.8 million and repaid GLN in full.
INSURANCE
The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to the MOB Properties and ALF and SNF Properties. There are certain types of losses that may either be uninsurable or not economically insurable; moreover, there can be no assurance that policies maintained by the Company will be adequate in the event of a loss. The Company carries earthquake and flood insurance for coverage of losses up to $35 million on the MOB Properties and the ALF and SNF Properties located in California and Arizona, which amount represents approximately 25% of the net book value of these properties. This coverage is subject to a 10% deductible up to the amount of insured loss. The ALF and SNF Properties located in Washington and Massachusetts do not carry earthquake or flood insurance. Thirty-two of the 45 properties directly or indirectly owned by the Company are located in Southern California, which has a history of seismic activity, including the 1994 Northridge earthquake that damaged the Holy Cross Medical Plaza property. Two ALF and SNF Properties owned by the Company are located in Phoenix, Arizona, in an area with a history of flood activity. Should an uninsured loss occur, the Company could lose its investment in, and anticipated earnings and cash flow from, a property.
ITEM 3.