ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 1997, the Properties consisted of 22 neighborhood/community shopping centers, 8 promotional/power centers, 2 regional malls and 14 single tenant facilities, containing in the aggregate approximately 9.0 million square feet of total gross leasable area ("GLA"). Approximately 7.2 million square feet of GLA is owned by the Company, and the balance is owned by certain anchor retailers. The Company believes that management's attention to quality, design and aesthetics, tenant mix and other specific community needs position a number of the Properties among the premier retail shopping centers in their respective communities. The majority of the Properties are located throughout Southern California, including 14 in Los Angeles County, 5 in San Diego County, 3 in Orange County, 2 in San Bernardino County, 2 in Riverside County, 1 in Imperial County and 1 in Ventura County. Based on published industry sources, the Company believes that the geographic concentration of the Properties establishes it as one of the leading fully integrated owners, managers and developers of retail shopping centers in the Western United States. In addition to its Southern California Properties the Company has 7 Properties in Northern and Central California, 3 Properties in Arizona, 3 Properties in Oregon and 5 Properties in Washington.
The Company's single tenant facilities range in size from approximately 36,800 square feet of total GLA to approximately 135,000 square feet of total GLA. The Company's neighborhood/community shopping centers and promotional/power centers range in size from approximately 66,000 square feet of total GLA to approximately 626,000 square feet of total GLA. The Company's regional malls range in size from approximately 810,000 square feet of GLA to approximately 1,232,000 square feet of GLA).
The Properties are designed to attract local and regional area customers and are typically anchored by one or more nationally or regionally known retailers. Depending on the market focus of a specific Property, major retailers at a Property may include value-oriented discount stores, supermarkets, membership warehouses, traditional department stores, fashion- oriented department stores, shops or well-known specialty retailers. Several of the Properties contain an entertainment component such as a theater multiplex. Anchor leases are typically for initial terms of 10 to 35 years, with one or more renewal options available to the lessee upon expiration of the initial term. By contrast, smaller shop leases are typically for 5 to 10 year terms. The longer term of the anchor leases helps to protect the Company against significant vacancies and to insure the presence of anchor retailers who draw consumers to the Company's retail centers. The shorter term of the smaller shop leases allows the Company to adjust rental rates for non-anchor store space on a regular basis and upgrade the overall tenant mix. Anchor leases are generally for lower base rents than leases for smaller shop tenants. The lower base rents paid by anchor retailers may be offset, in part, through periodic escalations and/or the payment of percentage rents. Certain anchor retailers at some of the Properties occupy space not owned by the Company and therefore do not pay base rent to the Company.
During 1997, the Company substantially completed construction at its two Redevelopment Properties. At Covina Town Square, the former Sears was demolished and replaced with a 95,150 square foot building which has been leased to AMC Theatres that opened for business in February 1998. Medford Center in Medford, Oregon was transformed from an enclosed mall to an open air power center comprising 340,867 square feet of GLA, of which 84,000 is still under construction.
Also, during 1997, the Company implemented an acquisition strategy designated to expand its portfolio of unenclosed anchored shopping centers in the Western United States. As a result of its acquisition strategy, the Company acquired 8 properties in 1997, aggregating approximately 848,000 square feet of GLA, with an aggregate purchase price of $91 million. The acquisitions consisted of the following:
Subsequent to December 31, 1997 the Company acquired eight properties, aggregating approximately 1,052,000 square feet of GLA, with an aggregate purchase price of $114 million. The acquisitions consist of the following:
The acquisitions were principally funded through proceeds from the sale of common stock to LFREI and borrowings on the Company's Secured Line of Credit.
During 1996, the Company sold 2 of its single tenant facilities for aggregate net proceeds of $6.3 million. In June 1996, the Company sold the Vons market located in Ventura, California for $2.8 million. In October 1996, the Company sold its property in Rancho Cucamonga for $3.5 million. The property was leased to Dayton-Hudson and had been vacant for several years. The proceeds from the sales were used to reduce borrowings on the Company's credit facility and to retire mortgage indebtedness secured by one of the properties.
Thirty-seven of the Properties are owned by the Company in fee and 9 are held by the Company under long-term ground leases. Included in the long-term ground leases are the Partially-Owned Properties, in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, partnership interests (75% in Kenneth Hahn Plaza and 34% in Vermont-Slauson Shopping Center).
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
The following table summarizes certain information with respect to the Properties as of December 31, 1997.
- ----- (1) The date indicated is the expiration date of any ground lease after giving effect to all renewal periods. (2) Anchor space not owned by the Company. (3) Tenant has vacated space subsequent to December 31, 1997. (4) Tenant opened for business subsequent to December 31, 1997. Space is reflected as GLA to be Built as of December 31, 1997.
PROPERTY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY
The following table sets forth, on a property-by-property basis, the GLA leased to anchor tenants, pad tenants and shop tenants, as of December 31, 1997:
- ---- (1) Anchor tenants are defined as those retail tenants occupying more than 25,000 square feet of GLA, 10% of a Property's aggregate GLA, or which represent a significant drawing power for the Property. (2) "Pad" tenants means freestanding single tenants. (3) Includes certain office space. (4) Based upon Total GLA, excluding GLA to be built. (5) Total annualized base rents of the Company for leases signed as of December 31, 1997, excluding (i) percentage rents, (ii) additional amounts payable by tenants such as common area maintenance, real estate taxes and other expense reimbursements and (iii) future contractual rent escalations or cost of living increases. (6) Calculated as total annualized base rent divided by GLA actually leased as of December 31, 1997. (7) Annual percentage rent for the most recently reported 12-month period.
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1997, square footage of GLA at each Property leased to national, regional and local retail tenants:
- -------- (1) National tenant refers to a business operating in three or more metropolitan areas located in at least three separate states. (2) Regional tenant refers to a business operating in more than one metropolitan area in one or two states. Includes financial institutions. (3) Local tenant refers to a business operating in only one metropolitan area.
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1997 the annualized base rent of all of the Properties, the percentage of annualized base rent, the average rent per square foot and the percentage leased, broken down by type of tenant:
TENANT CONCENTRATION
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1997 information as to anchor and/or national retail tenants which individually accounted for at least 1.0% of total annualized base rent of the Properties:
- -------- (1) Excludes non-owned Anchors. (2) Includes a 95,150 square foot complex located at Covina Town Square which opened in February 1998. (3) Montgomery Ward at El Camino North vacated its space subsequent to December 31, 1997.
TENANT LEASE EXPIRATIONS AND RENEWALS
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1997, tenant lease expirations for the next ten years at the Properties, assuming that no tenants exercise renewal options:
DEBT SECURED BY PROPERTIES
The following table summarizes the outstanding indebtedness secured by the Company's Properties as of December 31, 1997.
- -------- (1) Represents two notes payable to a pension fund which are cross- collateralized by the following properties; Kmart (Rocklin), Kmart (El Centro), Kmart (Banning), Kmart (Los Banos), Kmart (Madera), Kmart (Phoenix), Advantage/Sportmart Shopping Center, Huntington Center, Oracle Road, Vons (Simi Valley), Lakewood Plaza, Sam's Club (Downey), and Parkway Place.
(2) This note is in two tranches which are cross-collateralized by the following properties; San Fernando Mission Plaza, Rosedale Village, Country Fair Shopping Center, Fullerton Town Center, La Verne Town Center, and Sam's Club (Fountain Valley).
(3) As of December 31, 1997, the Company had a line of credit outstanding with a financial institution (the "Credit Facility"), due December 2000. The Credit Facility is secured by Empire Center, Medford Center, Montebello Town Square, The City Center, Media City Center, Pacific Linen Plaza, Ross Center, Vancouver Park Place, Smitty's Tucson, Frontier Village and Marshall's Plaza. Subsequent to December 31, 1997, the Company has reduced the balance outstanding on its Credit Facility by a net amount of $7.1 million.
(4) Total debt does not include $6,125,000 of Community Facilities District Special Tax Bonds (CFD) issued by the City of Fontana, California. Debt service is provided through a special tax assessment on the parcels of land within the Empire Center.
(5) Weighted average rate of interest on mortgage debt.
Aggregate future principal payments by year on the balance of mortgage indebtedness as of December 31, 1997 is as follows:
Total amount excludes $108,727,000 outstanding on the secured line of credit which is due on December 31, 2000.
DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
Certain properties had not completed their initial leasing plans at the date of the Company's initial public offering; Media City Center, Baldwin Hills Crenshaw Plaza, Empire Center, Montebello Town Square and The City Center (the "Development Properties"). Pursuant to an agreement among the Operating Partnership and certain limited partners that transferred the Development Properties to the Operating Partnership such OP limited partners had the right to receive additional partnership units in the Operating Partnership ("OP Units") based upon the increase in net annualized cash flow from the Development Properties between October 31, 1993 and the expiration of the applicable lease-up period for each development property. The increase in net annualized cash flow was based on leases signed by March 31 with the tenant open and paying rent by June 30 of the respective lease-up periods.
The lease-up period for Montebello Town Square and The City Center expired on March 31, 1995 and resulted in the issuance of an additional 113,506 OP Units to the OP Limited Partners. In connection with this issuance of additional OP Units, all of the leases were executed by March 31, 1995, with tenants paying rent by June 30, 1995, including certain leases where tenants were not open by June 30, 1995. The independent directors determined that it was appropriate to issue additional OP Units for all of these leases.
The lease-up period for Media City Center, Baldwin Hills Crenshaw Plaza and Empire Center expired on March 31, 1996. In connection with the completion of construction at Empire Center, certain improvements constructed during the lease-up period were not leased as of March 31, 1996. The independent directors determined that, the cost of construction of such improvements should be borne by the Company for purposes of calculating the issuance of additional OP Units for Empire Center and no OP Units would be issuable to the limited partners in connection with such unleased improvements. During the year ended December 31, 1995, the opening of approximately 38,000 square feet of retail and restaurant space at Media City Center, principally comprising a 30,000 square foot Virgin Megastore, and the 57,000 square foot Sony/Magic Johnson Theatres at Baldwin Hills Crenshaw Plaza, represented expansion of the Development Properties not contemplated at the IPO. Therefore, no additional OP Units were issued in connection with such expansions.
On August 12, 1996, the Independent members of the Board of Directors approved the issuance of 3,242,379 OP Units to the limited partners. The market capitalization of the OP was thereby increased by $41.7 million based upon the stock price as of August 12, 1996. The minority interest in the OP was thereby increased from 8% to approximately 26% effective July 1, 1996. As a result of the issuance of the 3,242,379 OP Units, minority interest was increased and additional paid-in capital decreased by approximately $31.5 million. The issuance of such additional OP Units in the third quarter of 1996 did not have a dilutive effect on net income per share.
PARTIALLY-OWNED PROPERTIES
The Operating Partnership owns partnership interests in the owners of the two "Partially-Owned Properties." The Operating Partnership owns a 75% managing general partnership interest in the partnership that owns Kenneth Hahn Plaza and an 85% managing general partnership interest in Haagen-Central Partnership, the general partnership which is the managing general partner of, and holds a 40% interest in, the partnership that owns Vermont-Slauson Shopping Center. Therefore, the Operating Partnership holds the equivalent of a 34% interest in Vermont-Slauson Shopping Center.
The Operating Partnership is the managing general partner of each such partnership, with control over day-to-day operations of the Partially-Owned Properties. The Company may have certain fiduciary responsibilities to its outside partners which it will need to consider when making decisions relating to the Partially-Owned Properties. The consent of the Company's outside partners may be required for any sale, transfer or encumbrance of the Partially-Owned Properties. In addition, the sale, transfer, assignment or pledge of partnership interests in the partnerships which own the Partially- Owned Properties require the prior written consent of the other partners or are subject to certain rights of first refusal.
OTHER ASSETS OF THE COMPANY
The Company's interest in Media City Center (Burbank, California) includes an interest in two promissory notes issued by the Redevelopment Burbank Agency of the City of Burbank (the "Burbank Agency") which mature on February 1, 2016. The first note is unsecured and was issued by the Burbank Agency on November 15, 1989 with an $18.5 million principal amount and bears interest at 9.25% per annum. The note is nonrecourse to the Burbank Agency. On each semi- annual payment date the Burbank Agency is required to make payments on the note to the extent of 70% of the real property tax increment generated by Media City Center, with certain exceptions. The second note is secured by certain tax revenues and was issued by the Burbank Agency on December 6, 1990 with a $33 million initial principal amount and bears interest at 9.25% per annum. The note is nonrecourse to the Burbank Agency but is secured by certain real property tax increments generated by the property as well as certain sales and use taxes generated by the property. On each semi-annual payment date the Burbank Agency is required to make payments on the note only to the extent of such tax items, less rent paid by Macy's (formerly Bullock's). Any amount which accrues under the notes that is not required to be paid is added to the principal amount of such notes. Any principal or interest due on either of the notes which has not been paid (due to the permitted reductions and limitation on payments described above) as of their respective maturity dates will be forgiven, and it is not likely that the full face amount of the notes and the interest thereon will be paid by such maturity dates. During the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company recognized income of approximately $2,656,000, $2,797,000 and $2,756,000, respectively, pursuant to the terms of such agency note agreements.
Under similar commitments from the Community Redevelopment Agencies of the Cities of Fullerton and Chino, other income was recognized for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 from Fullerton Town Center of $48,000, $57,000, and $59,000 respectively, and Country Fair Shopping Center of 147,000, $146,000 and $122,000 respectively. Such commitments expire in 2013 and 2001 for Fullerton and Chino, respectively, and any balance owing to the Company at expiration will be forgiven and discharged.
Such commitments have not been recorded as assets in the Company's financial statements as they are contingent in nature.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND OTHER REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on or in its properties. Such laws may impose such liability without regard to whether the Company knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of such substances may be substantial and the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the Owner's ability to sell such real estate or to borrow using such real estate as collateral. In connection with its ownership and operation of properties, the Company may be potentially liable under such laws and may incur costs in responding to such liabilities. No assurance can be given that any existing environmental studies with respect to any of the Properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or tenant of a Property did not create any material environmental condition not known to the Company, that future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more Properties.
Pursuant to an Environmental Indemnity Agreement the transferors of the 36 properties acquired at the time of the Company's formation in December 1993 (the "Original Properties") have agreed to provide certain indemnities to the Company for environmental liabilities that may arise with respect to any contamination on or affecting the condition of the Original Properties which was known as of December 27, 1993 or which becomes known after December 27, 1993 as a result of additional environmental testing commenced prior to December 27, 1993. Pursuant to the transfer documents with respect to Rosedale Village, Gresham Town Fair, Medford Center and LaVerne Towne Center (the "1994 Acquisition Properties"), the transferors of such properties provided certain indemnities with respect to environmental liabilities to the Company. Because responsibility for such matters is being retained by the transferors no liabilities have been recorded in the financial statements of the Company with respect to such matters. No environmental costs were incurred by the Company during the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.
The Properties are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (the "ADA"). The ADA has separate compliance requirements for "public accommodations" and "commercial facilities" but generally requires that all public facilities be made accessible to people with disabilities. These requirements became effective in 1992. Although the Company believes that the Properties are substantially in compliance with the present requirements of the ADA, the Company may incur additional costs of complying with the ADA in the future. However, the Company does not believe that such costs of compliance will have a material effect on the Company.
ITEM 3.