Item 2. Description of Property for further discussion regarding Houston’s economy.
We are continuing to divest of properties which no longer meet our core criteria and replace them primarily with high-quality lifestyle, grocery-anchored and multi-tenant community shopping centers. Although we will focus primarily on developing and acquiring Irreplaceable Corner multi-tenant shopping center properties, we will also continue to develop single-tenant properties located on Irreplaceable Corners. With respect to additional growth opportunities, we currently have over $150 million of projects in our pipeline at various stages of evaluation. Each potential acquisition is subjected to a rigorous due diligence process that includes site inspections, financial underwriting, credit analysis and market and demographic studies.
Real Estate Operating and Development Company
AmREIT’s real estate operating and development business, AmREIT Realty Investment Corporation and subsidiaries (“ARIC”), is a fully integrated and wholly-owned group of brokers and real estate professionals that provide development, acquisition, brokerage, leasing, construction, asset and property management services to our portfolio of properties, our affiliated retail partnerships and to third parties. This operating subsidiary, which is a taxable REIT subsidiary, builds value in our portfolio of retail properties by providing a high level of service to our tenants, as well as maintaining our portfolio of properties to meet our quality standards.
Having an internal real estate group also helps secure strong tenant relationships for both us and our retail partnerships. We have a growing roster of leases with well-known national and regional tenants as described above. Equally important, we have affiliations with these parent company tenants that extend across multiple sites. Not only does our real estate operating and development business create value through relationships, but it also provides an additional source of fee income and profits. Through the development, construction, management, leasing and brokerage services provided to our affiliated actively managed retail partnerships, as well as for third parties, our real estate team continues to generate fees and profits. During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, ARIC generated real estate and asset management fees of $2.3 million, $1.3 million and $1.5 million, which represented 11%, 13% and 25%, of the Company’s total revenues, respectively.
Additionally, through ARIC, we are able to generate additional profits through the selective acquisitions and dispositions of properties within a short time period (12 to 18 months). The majority of these assets are listed as real estate assets acquired for sale on our consolidated balance sheet. At December 31, 2004 and 2003, assets held for sale totaled approximately $6.3 million and $4.4 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, ARIC has generated gains on sales of properties acquired for sale of $1.8 million, $787 thousand and $0, respectively. We have built our real estate team over the past year to have a dedicated vice president running each area of our real estate operations. Additionally, we have staffed each department with the appropriate support to handle our needs as we continue to grow and strengthen this area of the Company.
ARIC has elected to be taxed as a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”), resulting in it being subject to taxation at regular corporation rates.
Securities Company
The part of our business model and operating strategy that distinguishes us from other publicly-traded REITs is AmREIT Securities Company (ASC), a National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD) registered broker-dealer which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of ARIC. Through ASC, we are able to raise capital through other NASD registered broker-dealers and the independent financial planning community. Historically, ASC has raised capital in two ways: first directly for AmREIT through non-traded classes of common shares, and second, for our actively managed retail partnerships.
During 2004, ASC raised approximately $25 million for AmREIT Monthly Income and Growth Fund II, Ltd., an affiliated retail partnership sponsored by a subsidiary of AmREIT. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2004, the Company fully subscribed its class C common share offering which it started in August 2003. The offering was a $44 million offering ($40 million offered to the public and $4 million reserved for the dividend reinvestment program), issued on a best efforts basis through the independent financial planning and broker-dealer communities. The Company primarily used the proceeds for the acquisition of new properties and to pay down existing debt. ASC is also the dealer manager on our newest offering, a $170 million class D common share offering ($150 million offered to the public and $20 million reserved for the dividend re-investment program). This offering, a publicly registered, non-traded class of common shares with a stated yield of 6.5%, was launched on June 25, 2004. The class D common shares are convertible into our class A common shares after a seven-year lock out period at a 7.7% premium on invested capital and are callable by the Company after one year from the date of issuance. We have raised $20.9 million through this offering as of December 31, 2004, including shares issued through the dividend reinvestment program.
Since capital is the lifeblood of any real estate company, having the unique opportunity to raise capital through both underwritten offerings and the independent financial planning community adds additional financial flexibility and dependability to our income stream. During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, ASC generated securities commission revenues from capital-raising activities of $7.7 million, $3.0 million and $847 thousand, respectively. ASC incurred commission expenses of $5.9 million, $2.3 million and $653 thousand which were paid to non-affiliated broker-dealers in conjunction with such capital-raising activities. For 2005, through a combination of equity for our actively managed retail partnerships and direct equity for AmREIT, ASC expects to raise approximately $120-$150 million directly through the independent financial planning community.
Retail Partnerships
AmREIT manages retail partnerships that sell limited partnership interests to retail investors, in which AmREIT indirectly invests as both the general partner and as a limited partner. The Company strives to create a structure that aligns the interests of our shareholders with those of our limited partners. These partnerships were formed to develop, own, manage, and add value to properties with an average holding period of two to four years. Value is created for AmREIT through our affiliates which serve as general partners of the retail partnerships. These general partners manage the partnerships and, in return, receive management fees as well as profit participation interests. The retail partnerships are structured so that the general partner, an affiliate of AmREIT, receives a significant profit only after the limited partners in the funds have received their targeted return, again, linking AmREIT’s success to that of its limited partners. During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, AmREIT earned fees of $1.8 million, $634 thousand and $668 thousand, respectively, by providing real estate services to the retail partnerships.
As of December 31, 2004, AmREIT directly managed, through its four actively managed retail partnerships, a total of $52.7 million in contributed capital. These four partnerships have or will enter their liquidation phases in 2003, 2008, 2010, and 2011, respectively. As these partnerships enter into liquidation, the Company, acting as the general partner, will receive economic benefit from our profit participation, after certain preferred returns have been paid to the partnerships’ limited partners. During 2004, AmREIT recognized approximately $869 thousand related to its general partner interest in AmREIT Opportunity Fund, Ltd. (AOF). See Footnote 5 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, any unrealized gains associated with this potential profit participation have not been reflected on our balance sheet or statement of operations.
Our strategy and our structure, as discussed herein, are reviewed by our Board of Trust Managers on a regular basis and may be modified or changed without a vote of our shareholders.
Competition
AmREIT’s properties are located in 17 states, with 28 of its properties located in the Texas metropolitan areas. All of AmREIT’s properties are located in areas that include competing properties. The number of competitive properties in a particular area could have a material adverse affect on both AmREIT’s ability to lease space at any of it’s properties or at any newly developed or acquired properties and the rents charged. AmREIT may be competing with owners, including, but not limited to, other REITs, insurance companies and pension funds that have greater resources that AmREIT.
Compliance with Governmental Regulations
Under various federal and state environmental laws and regulations, as an owner or operator of real estate, we may be required to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances, asbestos-containing materials, or petroleum product releases at our properties. We may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by those parties in connection with the contamination. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contaminations at any of our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the properties or to borrow using the properties as collateral. We could also be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination coming from our properties.
All of our properties will be acquired subject to satisfactory Phase I environmental assessments, which generally involve the inspection of site conditions without invasive testing such as sampling or analysis of soil, groundwater or other media or conditions; or satisfactory Phase II environmental assessments, which generally involve the testing of soil, groundwater or other media and conditions. Our board of trust managers may determine that we will acquire a property in which a Phase I or Phase II environmental assessment indicates that a problem exists and has not been resolved at the time the property is acquired, provided that (A) the seller has (1) agreed in writing to indemnify us and/or (2) established in escrow case funds equal to a predetermined amount greater than the estimated costs to remediate the problem; or (B) we have negotiated other comparable arrangements, including, without limitation, a reduction in the purchase price. We cannot be sure, however, that any seller will be able to pay under an indemnity we obtain or that the amount in escrow will be sufficient to pay all remediation costs. Further, we cannot be sure that all environmental liabilities have been identified or that no prior owner, operator or current occupant has created an environmental condition not known to us. Moreover, we cannot be sure that (1) future laws, ordinances or regulations will not impose any material environmental liability or (2) the current environmental condition of our properties will not be affected by tenants and occupants of the properties, by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as the presence of underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us.
Employees
As of December 31, 2004, AmREIT had 37 full time employees and 3 full time dedicated brokers.
Financial Information
Additional financial information related to AmREIT is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements located on pages through, included herein.
Item 2.
Description of Property
General
At December 31, 2004, we owned 61 properties located in 17 states. Reference is made to the Schedule III - Consolidated Real Estate Owned and Accumulated Depreciation filed with this Form 10-K for a listing of the properties and their respective costs.
Since 1995, we have been developing and acquiring multi-tenant shopping centers in our retail partnership business. During this time, we believe we have sharpened our ability to recognize the ideal location of high-end shopping centers and single-tenant properties that can create long-term value which we define as Irreplaceable Corners. Recent downward pressure on single-tenant cap rates has resulted in higher priced single-tenant real estate. As a result, while the company will continue to invest in single-tenant properties located on Irreplaceable Corners, we anticipate strategically increasing our holdings of multi-tenant shopping centers. Multi-tenant shopping centers represent 62.5% of annualized rental income from properties owned as of December 31, 2004.
Land - Our property sites, on which our leased buildings sit, range from approximately 34,000 to 1.0 million square feet, depending upon building size and local demographic factors. Sites purchased by the Company are in highly-populated, high-traffic corridors and have been reviewed for traffic and demographic pattern and history.
Buildings - The buildings are multi-tenant shopping centers and freestanding single-tenant properties located at “Main and Main” locations throughout the United States. They are positioned for good exposure to traffic flow and are constructed from various combinations of stucco, steel, wood, brick and tile. Multi-tenant buildings are generally 14,000 square feet and greater, and single-tenant buildings range from approximately 2,000 to 20,000 square feet. Buildings are suitable for possible conversion to various uses, although modifications may be required prior to use for other operations.
Leases - Primary lease terms range from five to 25 years. Generally, leases also provide for one to four five-year renewal options. Our retail properties are primarily leased on a “net” basis whereby the tenants are responsible, either directly or through landlord reimbursement, for the property taxes, insurance and operating costs such as water, electric, landscaping, maintenance and security. Generally, leases provide for either percentage rents based on sales in excess of certain amounts, periodic escalations or increases in the annual rental rates or both.
Location of Properties
Based in Houston, AmREIT’s current focus is on property investments in Texas. Of our 61 properties, 28 are located in Texas, with 21 being located in the greater Houston metropolitan statistical area. These 21 properties represented 67% of our rental income for the year ended December 31, 2004. Our portfolio of assets tends to be located in areas we know well, and where we can monitor them closely. Because of our proximity and deep knowledge of our markets, we believe AmREIT can deliver an extra degree of hands-on management to our real estate investments. We expect over the long term we will outperform absentee landlords in these markets.
Because of our investments in the greater Houston area, and throughout Texas, the Houston and Texas economy have a significant impact on our business and on the viability of our properties. Accordingly, management believes that any downturn in the Houston and Dallas economy could adversely affect us; however, general retail and grocery anchored shopping centers, which we primarily own, provide basic necessity-type items, and tend to be less affected by economic change.
Additionally, according to the Greater Houston Partnership, Houston is the 4th most populous city in the nation, trailing only New York, Los Angeles and Chicago. If Houston was a state, it would rank 36th in population. It is among the nation’s fastest-growing and most diverse metropolitan areas and is growing faster than both the state of Texas and the nation. Since 1990 approximately 49% of Houston’s population growth has been from net migration with 78% of that growth attributed to international immigration. Houston’s
economic base has diversified, sharply decreasing its dependence on upstream energy. Diversifying, or energy-independent, sectors account for 91% of net job growth in the economic base since 1987. Oil and gas exploration and production accounts for 11.2% of Houston’s Gross Area Product (GAP), down sharply from 21% as recently as 1985. The reduced role of oil and gas in Houston’s GAP reflects the rapid growth of such sectors as engineering services, health services and manufacturing. The Port of Houston in 2003 ranked first among U.S. ports in volume of foreign tonnage and is the world’s 6th largest port. Two major railroads and 150 trucking lines connect the Port to the balance of the continental United States, Canada and Mexico. Europe and Latin America are Houston’s top seaborne trading partners.
A listing of our properties by property type and by location as of December 31, 2004, follows based upon gross leasable area (GLA):
*
Held for Sale
**
Under Development (GLA represents proposed leasable square footage)
***
IHOP leasehold properties are located in NM, LA, OR, VA, TX, CA, TN CO, VA, NY, OR, KS and MO. Each of the properties has a GLA of 4,020 square feet.
****
Advance Auto properties are located in MO and IL. Each of the properties has a proposed GLA of 7,000 square feet.
The rental income generated by our properties during 2004 by state is as follows:
Grocery-anchored Shopping Centers
Our grocery-anchored shopping centers comprise 41.8% of our annualized rental income from the properties owned as of December 31, 2004. These properties are designed for maximum retail visibility and ease of access and parking for the consumer. All of our grocery-anchored centers are anchored by Kroger and are supported by a mix of specialty national and regional tenants such as Barnes & Noble, GAP and Starbucks. They are leased in a manner that provides a complimentary array of services to support the local retail consumer. These properties are located in the Houston and Dallas metropolitan areas and are typically located at an intersection guided by a traffic light, with high visibility, significant daily traffic counts, and in close proximity to neighborhoods and communities with household incomes above those of the national average. We are dependent upon the financial viability of Kroger, and any downturn in Kroger’s operating results could negatively impact our operating results. Refer to Kroger’s filings with the SEC website at www.sec.gov.
All of our grocery-anchored center leases provide for the monthly payment of base rent plus operating expenses. This monthly operating expense payment is based on an estimate of the tenant’s pro rata share of property taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other common area maintenance charges. Annually these operating expenses are reconciled with any overage being reimbursed to the tenants, with any underpayment being billed to the tenant. Generally these are net lease terms and allow the landlord to recover all of its operating expenses without the limitation of expense stops.
Our grocery-anchored shopping center leases range from five to 20 years and generally include one or more five-year renewal options. Annual rental income from these leases ranges from $21 thousand to $1.0 million per year.
Multi-tenant Shopping Centers
As of December 31, 2004, AmREIT owned eight multi-tenant shopping centers, including one under development, representing approximately 150,000 leaseable square feet. Our shopping center properties are primarily neighborhood and community strip centers, ranging from 8,400 to 35,000 square feet. None of the centers have internal common areas, but instead are designed for maximum retail visibility and ease of access and parking for the consumer. These properties have a mix of national, regional and local tenants, leased in a manner to provide a complimentary array of services to support the local retail consumer. All of our centers are located in the greater Houston area, and are typically located at an intersection guided by a traffic light, with high visibility, significant daily traffic counts, and in close proximity to neighborhoods and communities with household incomes above those of the national average.
All of our shopping center leases provide for the monthly payment of base rent plus operating expenses. This monthly operating expense payment is based on an estimate of the tenant’s pro rata share of property taxes, insurance, utilities, maintenance and other common area maintenance charges. Annually these operating expenses are reconciled with any overage being reimbursed to the tenants, with any underpayment being billed to the tenant.
Our shopping center leases range from five to twenty years and generally include one or more five-year renewal options. Annual rental income from these leases ranges from $26 thousand to $310 thousand per year and typically allow for rental increases, or bumps, periodically through the life of the lease.
Single-tenant Properties
As of December 31, 2004, AmREIT owned 50 single-tenant properties, representing approximately 326,000 leaseable square feet. Our single-tenant leases typically provide that the tenant bears responsibility for substantially all property costs and expenses associated with ongoing maintenance and operation of the property such as utilities, property taxes and insurance. Some of the leases require that we will be responsible for roof and structural repairs. In these instances, we normally require warranties and/or guarantees from the related vendors, suppliers and/or contractors to mitigate the potential costs of repairs during the primary term of the lease.
Because our leases are entered into with or guaranteed by the corporate, parent tenant, they typically do not limit the Company’s recourse against the tenant and any guarantor in the event of a default. For this reason, these leases are designated by us as “Credit Tenant Leases”, because they are supported by the assets of the entire company, not just the individual store location.
The primary term of the single-tenant leases ranges from ten to 25 years. All of the leases also provide for one to four, five-year renewal options. Annual rental income ranges from $61 thousand to $595 thousand per year.
Land to be Developed
As part of our investment objectives, we will invest in land to be developed on Irreplaceable Corners. A typical investment in land to be developed will result in a six to 12 month holding period, followed by the execution of a ground lease with a national or regional retail tenant or by the development of a single-tenant property or multi-tenant strip center. As of December 31, 2004, AmREIT directly held three sites to be developed, as further discussed below.
4-10 & Blanco is a 1.329 acre pad site located at the intersection of Loop 410 and Blanco Road in San Antonio, Texas. We are currently in discussions with two potential tenants for lease of this space, including a national bank. Research Forest @ Six Pines is a 1.608 acre pad site located at the intersection of Research Forest and Six Pines, in The Woodlands, Texas. We recently entered into a ground lease on this property with Comerica.
San Felipe and Winrock is an approximately two acre pad site located at the intersection of San Felipe and Winrock near the Tanglewood residential community in Houston, Texas. The property was purchased in
November 2003. Subsequent to the purchase, AmREIT entered into a long-term ground lease with Bank of America for approximately one acre, off the corner intersection. Rental income under the ground lease commenced in November 2004. AmREIT is holding the remaining one acre and is in leasing discussions with a number of national tenants.
Property Acquisitions and Dispositions
During 2004, AmREIT acquired $105.2 million in assets through the acquisition of five multi-tenant retail properties. The acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and the results of their operations are included in the consolidated financial statements from the respective dates of acquisition. Further details regarding these acquisitions follows:
Grocery-anchored Shopping Centers
On December 27, 2004, AmREIT acquired MacArthur Park Shopping Center, a Kroger anchored shopping center consisting of 198,443 square feet located on approximately 23.3 acres. The property, which was acquired from Regency Centers, is located in Dallas, Texas at the northwest intersection of I-635 and MacArthur Boulevard in the heart of Las Colinas, an affluent residential and business community. The property is surrounded by Fortune 500 companies such as ExxonMobil, Citigroup, and Sabre. The property was acquired for cash and the assumption of long-term fixed-rate debt. The Kroger lease is for 20 years, containing approximately 63,000 square feet, expiring in November 2020. The shopping center was 100 percent occupied as of December 31, 2004, and the weighted average remaining lease term for the project is 8.1 years.
On July 1, 2004, AmREIT acquired Plaza in the Park, a 138,663 square-foot Kroger anchored shopping center located on approximately 12.2 acres. The property is located at the southwest corner of Buffalo Speedway and Westpark in Houston, Texas. The Kroger store in Plaza in the Park expanded during 2004, making it the largest Kroger grocery store in the state. The property was acquired for cash and the assumption of long-term fixed-rate debt. The weighted average remaining lease term for the project is 9.2 years. The Kroger lease is for 20 years, containing approximately 82,000 square feet, expiring in August 2017. The shopping center was 95 percent occupied as of December 31, 2004.
On July 1, 2004, AmREIT acquired Cinco Ranch, a 97,297 square-foot Kroger anchored shopping center located on approximately 11.1 acres. The property is located at the northeast corner of Mason Road and Westheimer Parkway in Katy, Texas, a suburb of Houston. The property was acquired for cash and the assumption of long-term fixed-rate debt. The weighted average remaining lease term for the project is 13.5 years. The Kroger lease is for 20 years, containing approximately 63,000 square-feet, expiring in June 2023. The shopping center was 100 percent occupied as of December 31, 2004.
Multi-tenant Shopping Centers
On July 21, 2004, AmREIT acquired Bakery Square Shopping Center, a 34,614 square-foot retail project including a free standing Walgreens and a shopping center anchored by Bank of America. This is an infill property located just west of downtown Houston and includes other national tenants such as T-Mobile, Blockbuster Video and Boston Market. The property was acquired for cash and the assumption of long-term fixed-rate debt. The weighted average remaining lease term for the shopping center is 4.4 years. The Walgreens lease covers 15,210 square feet and is non-cancelable until October 31, 2016, with Walgreens having the option to renew the lease every five years thereafter until the lease expires on October 31, 2056. The shopping center was 100 percent occupied as of December 31, 2004.
On June 15, 2004, AmREIT acquired Courtyard at Post Oak, consisting of a 4,013 square-foot, free standing building occupied by Verizon Wireless and a 9,584 square-foot, multi-tenant shopping center occupied by Ninfa’s Restaurant and Dessert Gallery. The property is located at the northwest intersection of Post Oak and San Felipe in Houston, Texas which is the heart of the Uptown Houston area, the most significant retail corridor in the Greater Houston area. The property was acquired for cash. The weighted average remaining lease term for the project is 4.7 years.
Single-tenant Properties
For the year ended December 31, 2004 AmREIT sold six single-tenant non-core properties, resulting in a net gain of $861 thousand after including impairment charges of $1.1 million on these properties which were recognized during 2004. The cash proceeds from the sale of the five properties were approximately $11.1 million after paying down debt of $1.4 million.
Item 3.