ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The following tables set forth certain information relating to our properties as of December 31, 2000. The Company holds title to the properties or directly or indirectly holds 100% of the general and limited partnership interests in the partnerships that own Potomac Mills, Franklin Mills, Sawgrass Mills (Phases I and II) and Gurnee Mills. The Operating Partnership also owns, directly or indirectly, interests as both a general partner and a limited partner in the joint ventures that own the following properties: Ontario Mills (50%), Grapevine Mills (37.5%), Arizona Mills (36.8%), The Block at Orange (50%), The Oasis at Sawgrass (50%), Concord Mills (37.5%), Katy Mills (62.5%), Opry Mills (66.7%) and Arundel Mills (37.5%). The Operating Partnership has also formed joint ventures to develop additional properties. We and our joint venture partners are entitled to a 9% preferred return on each of our qualified capital contributions and any remaining cash flow is distributed in accordance with each partners' respective ownership interests.
SUMMARY OF PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Mills, the Block and the Community Center as of December 31, 2000:
SUMMARY OF PROPERTIES, CONTINUED
SUMMARY OF PROPERTIES, CONTINUED
- --------------------
(1) Includes 960,933 square feet of gross leasable area owned by tenants as follows: Potomac Mills-80,000 square feet; Franklin Mills-209,612 square feet; Sawgrass Mills-281,774 square feet; Gurnee Mills-250,806 square feet; Ontario Mills-125,000 square feet; and Liberty Plaza - 13,741 square feet. Ground leases at Franklin Mills of 152,370 square feet and at Grapevine Mills of 177,063 square feet are also included. (2) Percent leased is defined as all space leased and for which rent is being paid as of December 1, 2000, excluding tenants with leases having a term of less than one year plus gross leasable area owned by store tenants described in footnote (1). (3) Annualized base rent is defined as the contractual minimum rent of tenants comprising gross leasable area at December 1, 2000 multiplied by 12, excluding tenants as noted in footnote (1). (4) Anchor stores include all stores occupying more than 20,000 square feet.
PROPERTY OPERATING INCOME (IN THOUSANDS, UNAUDITED)
The following table sets forth the property operating income for each of the Mills, the Block, Mainstreet (our push cart program), Community Centers and the Net Lease Properties. The purpose of this table is to provide details about selected line items within our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2000 and is not intended to be a representation of net income according to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000
WHOLLY OWNED PROPERTIES
UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURES
- --------------
(1) Total property operating costs excludes management fees as follows: Potomac Mills - $981, Franklin Mills - $785, Sawgrass Mills - $1,060, Gurnee Mills - $768, Liberty Plaza - $98, Disposed Properties - $369, Ontario Mills - $1,081, Grapevine Mills - $1,587, Arizona Mills - $1,601, The Block at Orange - $656, The Oasis at Sawgrass - $209, Concord Mills - $1,363, Katy Mills - $735, Opry Mills - $559 and Arundel Mills - $186. (2) On August 3, 2000, the Company sold its interest in ten community centers (the "Disposed Properties").
OCCUPANCY ANALYSIS
The following table sets forth occupancy analysis for our Mills, Liberty Plaza and the Block as of December 31, 2000.
(1) Includes 960,933 square feet of gross leasable area owned by certain store tenants as follows: Potomac Mills-80,000 square feet; Franklin Mills-209,612 square feet; Sawgrass Mills-281,774 square feet; Gurnee Mills-250,806 square feet; Liberty Plaza-13,741 square feet; and Ontario Mills-125,000 square feet. A ground lease at Franklin Mills of 152,370 square feet and at Grapevine Mills of 177,063 square feet are also included. (2) Anchor stores include all stores occupying more than 20,000 square feet. (3) Gross leasable area occupied is defined as follows: (i) all space leased and for which rent is being paid as of December 1, 2000, excluding tenants with leases that have a term of less than one year, plus (ii) gross leasable area owned by certain store tenants.
LEASE EXPIRATION SCHEDULE (1)
The following table shows lease expirations assuming that none of the tenants exercise renewal options. Except as described in footnote (1), the minimum rent is the monthly contractual minimum rent of the expiring leases as of December 31, 2000, multiplied by 12.
(1) Excludes 835,933 square feet of gross leaseable area owned by tenants as follows: Potomac Mills - 80,000 square feet; Franklin Mills - 209,612 square feet; Sawgrass Mills - 281,774 square feet; Gurnee Mills - 250,806 square feet; and Liberty Plaza - 13,741 square feet. A ground lease at Franklin Mills of 152,370 square feet is excluded (2) Anchor tenants are defined as any tenant whose GLA equals or exceeds 50,000 sq. ft. and Major tenants are defined as any tenant whose GLA equals or exceeds 2000 sq. ft. but is less than 50,000 sq. ft. (3) For lease expiration purposes, Sawgrass Mills includes 59,480 square feet of gross leasable area that is owned in fee by Sawgrass Mills Phase III (The Oasis), but leased back to Sawgrass Mills and is sublet to Regal Theatres.
LEASE EXPIRATION SCHEDULE (1)
The following table shows lease expirations assuming that none of the tenants exercise renewal options. Except as described in footnote (1), the minimum rent is the monthly contractual minimum rent of the expiring leases as of December 31, 2000, multiplied by 12.
(1) Excludes 125,000 square feet of gross leaseable area owned by tenants as follows: Ontario Mills - 125,000 square feet. A ground lease at Grapevine Mills of 177,063 square feet is also excluded. (2) Anchor tenants are defined as any tenant whose GLA equals or exceeds 50,000 sq. ft. and Major tenants are defined as any tenant whose GLA equals or exceeds 20,000 sq. ft. but is less than 50,000 sq. ft. (3) For lease expiration purposes, Sawgrass Mills includes 59,480 square feet of gross leasable area that is owned in fee by Sawgrass Mills Phase III (The Oasis), but leased back to Sawgrass Mills and is sublet to Regal Theatres.
AVERAGE RENTS
The following table sets forth, for each of the last five years, certain information regarding operating trends with respect to the existing Mills and The Block at Orange.
- ----------------- (1) Average percent leased is defined as total average space leased and for which rent was being paid excluding tenants with leases having a term of less than one year. (2) Annual rent excludes $500,000 of ground lease rent for 1999 and $800,000 of ground lease rent for 1998 and 1997.
Note: The above amounts do not include Mainstreet retail income of $4,308,000 for 2000, $2,659,000 for 1999, $2,511,000 for 1998, $2,251,000 for 1997 and $2,088,000 for 1996.
RENTAL RATES (1)
The following table sets forth the average base rent per leased square foot of store openings and closings for each property for the twelve months ended December 31, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996.
(1) Katy Mills, Concord Mills, The Oasis at Sawgrass, The Block at Orange, Opry Mills and Arundel Mills are excluded from this analysis, due to still being in their initial lease-up phase. For the same reason, Ontario Mills for 1997, Grapevine Mills and Arizona Mills for 1998 are excluded. (2) The releasing spread is calculated as the difference between per square foot openings and per square foot closings for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999, 1998, 1997 and 1996. Openings and closings include renewals but exclude exercised options.
SPECIALTY STORE TENANT REPORTED SALES ANALYSIS
Notes:
For the analysis above, the Company only includes those projects which the Company views as achieving stabilized performance levels. The projects included in the respective years are as follows:
2000 Potomac Mills, Franklin Mills, Sawgrass Mills, Gurnee Mills, Ontario Mills, Grapevine Mills, Arizona Mills, The Block at Orange and The Oasis at Sawgrass
1999 Potomac Mills, Franklin Mills, Sawgrass Mills, Gurnee Mills and Ontario Mills
1998 Potomac Mills, Franklin Mills, Sawgrass Mills, Gurnee Mills and Ontario Mills
Comparable sales presented above are based on tenant reported sales for the twelve months ended December 31, 2000 versus the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 and include only those tenants that have been in occupancy for the 24 month period ended December 31, 2000. Concord Mills and Katy Mills which opened September 1999 and October 1999, respectively, are excluded from this analysis, since these projects have not reached stabilized performance levels.
DIVERSIFIED TENANT BASE
Because our projects represent a collection of various retail formats under one roof, we believe that our tenant base represents one of the more diversified mixes of retailers in the industry today. This is evidenced by the fact that no tenant represents more than 4.0% of 2000 base rent. We further believe that the overall credit of our tenant base is strong given the diversity of our retailers and the large number of manufacturer outlet tenants. Our universe of tenants continues to expand.
The following table, which includes our joint venture projects (Ontario Mills, Grapevine Mills, Arizona Mills, The Block at Orange, The Oasis at Sawgrass, Concord Mills, Katy Mills, Opry Mills and Arundel Mills), sets forth certain information with respect to our ten largest tenants (measured by 2000 base rent) as of December 31, 2000:
- ---------------
(1) Includes T.J. Maxx and Marshalls. (2) Includes J.C. Penney (3) Includes GAP Outlet, Old Navy and Banana Republic. (4) Includes Burlington Coat Factory and Totally 4 Kids.
DESCRIPTION OF EXISTING PROPERTIES
Set forth below are descriptions of each of our existing Mills and Block properties.
POTOMAC MILLS - WOODBRIDGE, VIRGINIA. Potomac Mills contains approximately 1.6 million square feet of gross leasable area, of which one anchor store tenant owns approximately 80,000 square feet. Potomac Mills opened in 1985 with a total of approximately 630,000 square feet of gross leasable area. As a result of customer demand, Potomac Mills was expanded to approximately 1.2 million square feet of gross leasable area in 1986. The Phase III expansion of Potomac Mills opened on September 30, 1993 and increased total gross leasable area by approximately 355,000 square feet. We completed construction of a 63,000 square foot Van's Skate Park which opened in the spring of 2000. Potomac Mills has 19 anchors, including: IKEA, J.C. Penney Outlet, Homeplace, Marshalls, Spiegel Outlet, AMC Theatres, The Sports Authority, Off 5th - Saks Fifth Avenue, T.J. Maxx, Syms, Group USA and Nordstrom Rack. Potomac Mills is situated on approximately 161 acres located approximately 20 miles southwest of Washington, D.C. Potomac Mills is adjacent to Interstate 95, which serves as one of the transportation backbones of the Washington metropolitan area. This location strategically positions Potomac Mills between the Washington/Baltimore metropolitan market to the north and Richmond, approximately 90 miles to the south. We own 100% of Potomac Mills.
FRANKLIN MILLS - PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA. Franklin Mills opened in 1989 and contains approximately 1.7 million square feet of gross leasable area, of which two anchor store tenants own approximately 209,000 square feet. We began remerchandising Franklin Mills in 1996 by upgrading its tenant mix and began construction on an entertainment zone, including themed restaurants and interactive entertainment venues, in the first half of 1997, which was completed in November 1998. Franklin Mills has 19 anchors, including: Bed, Bath & Beyond, Last Call from Neiman Marcus, Marshalls, Nordstrom Rack, Office Max, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Jillian's, Syms and Sam Ash Music. Franklin Mills features what we believe is the largest concentration of outlet retailing in the Delaware Valley. With access from U.S. Highway 1 and the Pennsylvania Turnpike, Franklin Mills is strategically positioned approximately 15 miles northeast of Philadelphia's Center City and just west of Interstate 95, a major thoroughfare serving the greater Philadelphia/Wilmington metropolitan market. We own 100% of Franklin Mills.
SAWGRASS MILLS - SUNRISE, FLORIDA. Sawgrass Mills, which opened in 1990, contains approximately 1.8 million square feet of gross leasable area, of which three anchor store tenants own approximately 282,000 square feet. As a result of customer demand, Sawgrass Mills was expanded by approximately 136,000 square feet of gross leasable area in 1995. We opened The Oasis at Sawgrass in April 1999 which consisted of an approximately 290,000 square foot entertainment zone anchored by a 24-screen Regal Theater. Other tenants include Sega Gameworks, Cheesecake Factory and Legal Seafoods. Sawgrass Mills has 19 anchors, including: Beall's Outlet Store, Burlington Coat Factory, Last Call from Neiman Marcus, Spiegel Outlet, The Sports Authority, Homeplace, GAP and Sun & Ski Sports. Sawgrass Mills is located in Florida's "Gold Coast" market approximately 11 miles west of Fort Lauderdale. The site lies adjacent to both the Sawgrass Expressway and Flamingo Road, between Sunrise and Oakland Park Boulevards. The entire South Florida region is linked by the road network of the Sawgrass Expressway, Interstate 75 and Interstate 595, which intersect at an interchange located less than two miles southwest of Sawgrass Mills. We own 100% of Sawgrass Mills, excluding The Oasis at Sawgrass.
GURNEE MILLS - GURNEE, ILLINOIS. Gurnee Mills opened in 1991 and contains approximately 1.7 million square feet of gross leasable area, of which three anchor store tenants own approximately 251,000 square feet. We completed construction of an expansion of over 195,000 square feet of gross leasable area in 1999, which added an ice skating rink to the existing mall. Gurnee Mills has been remerchandised resulting in the upgrade of the project's tenant mix. Gurnee Mills has 16 anchors, including: Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Rinkside Sports, J.C. Penney Outlet, Homeplace, Marshalls, Spiegel Outlet, Bed, Bath & Beyond, The Sports Authority, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, T.J. Maxx and Syms. The project is located adjacent to Interstate 94, the major north/south thoroughfare linking Chicago and Milwaukee. Gurnee Mills is clearly visible from Interstate 94 and is situated directly across from Six Flags Great America, one of the largest amusement parks in the Midwest. We own 100% of Gurnee Mills.
ONTARIO MILLS - ONTARIO, CALIFORNIA. Ontario Mills opened in 1996 and contains approximately 1.5 million square feet of gross leasable area comprised of approximately 1,000,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 500,000 square feet of specialty store space. In 1999, we completed a 136,000 square foot expansion which included tenants such as Van's Skate Park, Sam Ash Music, Cost Plus and Iguana Ameramex. Ontario Mills currently has 23 anchors, including: Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Cost Plus, Dave & Busters, Hollytron, Iguana Ameramex, J.C. Penney Outlet, Burlington Coat Factory, The Sports Authority, Marshalls, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Mikasa, Off Rodeo Drive, T.J. Maxx, AMC Theatres, Virgin Megastore, Group USA, Foozles, Totally 4 Kids, Rainforest Cafe, Sam Ash Music, Sega Gameworks and Van's Skate Park. Ontario Mills is located at the intersection of Interstate 10 and Interstate 15 in the heart of the Riverside/San Bernardino area known as the "Inland Empire." Ontario Mills serves the Los Angeles/Orange County metropolitan market.
Ontario Mills is owned by a limited partnership among us, with a 50% interest, Kan Am, with a 25% interest, and Simon Property, with a 25% interest. Kan Am contributed 50% of the initial required equity capital. We and Simon Property have contributed the balance of the initial required equity capital on a pro rata basis. We, Simon Property and Kan Am each receive a 9% preferred return on our equity, and the remaining cash flow is distributed pro rata in accordance with the percentage ownership interests. We have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing of the Ontario Mills project, subject to the other joint venture partners' approval of specified major decisions, including sale or refinancing of the project and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the fifth anniversary of the project's opening, either we and Simon Property together or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, we and Simon Property can require Kan Am to sell to us, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership. Also pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require us and Simon Property to acquire, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operation Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property at our and Simon Property's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership.
At any time, during the operating period, if we or Simon are unable to agree on specified major decisions, at any time following the fifth or tenth anniversary of the project's completion date or at any time if certain named executive officers of either us or Simon are no longer executive officers, either we or Simon can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, either party, as the offeror, may require the other party, as offeree, to elect to either sell to the offeror the offeree's interest in the limited liability company or purchase from the offeror the offeror's interest in the limited liability company for cash, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements.
GRAPEVINE MILLS - GRAPEVINE, TEXAS. Grapevine Mills opened in 1997 and contains approximately 1.5 million square feet of gross leasable area comprised of approximately 950,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 520,000 square feet of specialty store space. Grapevine Mills currently has 20 anchors, including: AMC Theatres, Polar Ice, Old Navy, Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Burlington Coat Factory, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Group USA, Books-A-Million, Sega Gameworks, Virgin Megastore, Iguana Ameramex and Sun & Ski Sports. Grapevine Mills is located on a 175-acre site located at the interchange of Highway 121 and International Parkway, two miles north of the Dallas/Fort Worth Airport in Grapevine, Texas. Grapevine Mills is approximately 19 miles northeast of downtown Fort Worth and serves the Dallas/Fort Worth metropolitan area.
Grapevine Mills is owned by a limited partnership among us, with a 37.5% interest, Simon Property, with a 37.5% interest, and Kan Am, with a 25% interest. Kan Am contributed 50% of the initial required equity capital. We and Simon Property have contributed the balance of the initial required equity capital on a pro rata basis. We, Simon Property and Kan Am each receive a 9% preferred return on our equity, and the remaining cash flow is distributed pro rata in accordance with the percentage ownership interests. We and Simon Property have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing of the Grapevine Mills project, specified major decisions subject to Simon Property's and Kan Am's approval, which include changes to the plan of development, the annual operating budget for the project and any proposed sale or refinancing.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening, either we and Simon Property together or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, we and Simon Property can require Kan Am to sell to us, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership. Also pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require us and Simon Property to acquire, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property at our and Simon Property's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership.
At any time, during the operating period, if we or Simon are unable to agree on specified major decisions, at any time following the tenth anniversary of the project's completion date or at any time if certain named executive officers of either us or Simon are no longer executive officers, either we or Simon can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, either party, as the offeror, may require the other party, as offeree, to elect to either sell to the offeror the offeree's interest in the limited liability company or purchase from the offeror the offeror's interest in the limited liability company for cash, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements.
ARIZONA MILLS - TEMPE, ARIZONA. Arizona Mills opened in 1997 and contains approximately 1.2 million square feet of gross leasable area comprised of approximately 710,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 520,000 square feet of specialty store space. Arizona Mills currently has 16 anchors, including: Burlington Coat Factory, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Last Call-Neiman Marcus, Oshman's, Harkins Cinema, Hilo Hattie, J.C. Penney, Group USA, Hi-Health, Virgin Megastore and Sega Gameworks. The project is located on a 115-acre site located 20 minutes from downtown Phoenix, at the intersection of Interstate 10 and Superstition Freeway (Highway 60).
Arizona Mills is owned by a limited liability company owned by us, with a 36.8% interest, Taubman Realty, with a 36.8% interest, and Simon Property, with a 26.4% interest. All joint venture partners are obligated to contribute required equity capital on a pro rata basis. We have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing services of the Arizona Mills project, subject to the other joint venture partners' approval of specified major decisions, including sale or refinancing of the project and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the later of the fifth anniversary of the project's opening or the date that 90% of the project has been leased, if the joint venture partners are unable to agree upon specified major decisions (including, among others, sales, refinancings, expansions, and certain capital expenditures), any joint venture partner can cause the project to be sold pursuant to specified procedures.
THE BLOCK AT ORANGE - ORANGE, CALIFORNIA. The Block at Orange opened in November 1998, with approximately 642,000 square feet of gross leasable area comprised of approximately 360,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 280,000 square feet of specialty store space. The Block at Orange currently has 10 anchors, including: Borders Books and Music, Van's Skate Park, Virgin Megastore, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Ron Jon Surf Shop, Sega Gameworks, AMC Theatres, Dave & Busters, Hilo Hattie, Mars Music, and has an additional anchor store commitment. The Block at Orange is located on an 85-acre site located at the intersection of the Santa Ana Freeway (I-10), the Garden Grove Freeway and Orange Freeway (Highway 57) in the City of Orange, California, three miles from Disneyland.
The Block at Orange project is owned by a limited partnership between us, with a 50% interest, and Kan Am, with a 50% interest. Kan Am has contributed $60 million (which represents 100% of the estimated equity requirements for this project). Kan Am receives a 9% preferred return on its equity and the remaining cash flow will be distributed pro rata in accordance with the percentage ownership interests. We have guaranteed Kan Am's receipt of this preferred return until such time as qualified permanent financing is secured for the project. We have the right to provide all the development, property management and leasing services for the project, subject to the approval of Kan Am for specified major decisions, including the sale or refinancing of the project and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening, either we or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, we can require Kan Am to sell to us, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership. Also pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require us to acquire, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership at our election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership.
THE OASIS AT SAWGRASS - SUNRISE, FLORIDA. The Oasis at Sawgrass opened in 1999 and contains approximately 290,000 square feet of gross leasable area comprised of approximately 135,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 155,000 square feet. The Oasis at Sawgrass currently has 3 anchors: Regal Theatre, Sega Gameworks, and Ron Jon Surf Shop. The Oasis at Sawgrass is an expansion of the existing Sawgrass Mills Project.
The Oasis at Sawgrass is owned by a limited partnership among us, with a 50% interest, and Kan Am, with a 50% interest. The land on which the Oasis is situated is owned in fee by Sawgrass Mills Phase II Limited Partnership and is ground leased to the joint venture that owns the Oasis. The Oasis joint venture, in turn, master leases improvements containing 96,907 square feet of space to the entity that owns Phase I of Sawgrass Mills. A transaction was completed by which Sawgrass Mills Phase II Limited Partnership conveyed its fee title interest in the Phase III land to the Oasis joint venture and terminated the Phase III ground lease.
Kan Am has contributed $24 million (which represents 100% of the estimated equity requirements for this project.) Kan Am receives a 9% preferred return on it's equity and the remaining cash flow will be distributed pro rata in accordance with the percentage ownership interests. We have guaranteed Kan Am's receipt of this preferred return until such time as qualified permanent financing is secured for this project. We have the right to provide all the development, property management and leasing services for this project, subject to the approval of Kan Am for specified major decisions, including the sale or refinancing of the project and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening, either we or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, we can require Kan Am to sell us, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require us to acquire, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership at our election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership.
CONCORD MILLS - CONCORD, NORTH CAROLINA. Concord Mills opened in 1999 and contains approximately 1.3 million square feet of gross leasable area comprised of approximately 690,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 570,000 square feet of specialty store space. Concord Mills currently has 16 anchors including: Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, AMC theatres, Jillian's, Sun & Ski Sports, Alabama Grill, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Burlington Coat Factory, T.J. Maxx, F.Y.E. (For Your Entertainment), and Old Navy. Concord Mills is located on an 165-acre site at the intersection of interstate 85 and Concord Mills Boulevard in the city of concord which is approximately ten miles north of downtown Charlotte.
Concord Mills is owned by a limited partnership among us, with a 37.5% interest, Simon Property, with a 37.5% interest, and Kan Am, with a 25% interest. Kan Am has contributed $25.0 million (which represents 50% of the estimated equity requirements for the project). We and Simon Property have contributed the balance of this initial required equity capital on a pro rata basis. We, Simon Property, and Kan Am receive a 9% preferred return on our equity and the remaining cash flow is distributed pro rata in accordance with the percentage ownership interests. We and Simon Property have guaranteed Kan Am's receipt of this preferred return until qualified permanent financing is secured for the project. We and Simon Property have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing of the project. Specified major decisions are subject to Simon Property's and Kan Am's approval, which includes changes to the plan of development, the annual operating budget and any proposed sale or refinancing.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening, either we and Simon Property together or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, we and Simon Property can require Kan Am to sell us, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require us and Simon Property to acquire, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property at our and Simon Property's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership.
At any time, during the operating period, if we or Simon are unable to agree on specified major decisions, at any time following the tenth anniversary of the project's completion date or at any time if certain named executive officers of either us or Simon are no longer executive officers, either we or Simon can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, either party, as the offeror, may require the other party, as offeree, to elect to either sell to the offeror the offeree's interest in the limited liability company or purchase from the offeror the offeror's interest in the limited liability company for cash, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements.
KATY MILLS - KATY, TEXAS. Katy Mills opened in 1999 and contains approximately 1.2 million square feet of gross leasable area comprised of approximately 630,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 560,000 square feet of specialty store space. Katy Mills currently has 13 anchors including: Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Burlington Coat Factory, AMC Theatres, F.Y.E. (For Your Entertainment), Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Sun & Ski Sports, Old Navy, Jillian's, and Marshalls. Katy Mills is located on a 500-acre site at the intersection of Interstate 10 and Katy-Fort Bend Road in Fort Bend and Harris Counties which is approximately twenty miles west of Houston.
Katy Mills is owned by a limited partnership between us, with a 62.5% interest, and Kan Am, with a 37.5% interest. Kan Am has contributed $78.75 million (which represents 75% of the estimated equity requirements for the project). We and Kan Am receive a 9% preferred return on our equity and the remaining cash flow will be distributed pro rata in accordance with the percentage ownership interests. We have guaranteed Kan Am's receipt of this preferred return until qualified permanent financing is secured for the project. We have the right to provide all development, property management and leasing services for the project, subject to the approval of Kan Am for specified major decisions, including a sale or refinancing of the project and approval of annual budgets.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening, either we or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, we can require Kan Am to sell us, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require us to acquire, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership at our election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership.
OPRY MILLS - NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE. Opry Mills opened in May 2000 and contains approximately 1.1 million square feet of gross leasable area comprised of approximately 575,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 535,000 square feet of specialty store space. Opry Mills currently has 15 anchors including: Alabama Grill, Barnes & Noble, Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Gibson Guitar, Jillian's, Off Broadway Shoes, Off 5th - Saks Fifth Avenue, Old Navy, Regal Theatre, Sun & Ski Sports and Tower Records. Opry Mills is located on a 67-acre site that is adjacent to the Grand Ole Opry and the Opryland Hotel Convention Center.
The project is owned by a limited partnership between us, with a 66.67% interest, and a corporate affiliate of Gaylord Entertainment Company ("Gaylord"), with a 33.33% interest. Gaylord has agreed to contribute the land for the project, valued at $25 million, as their initial required capital. We have contributed the balance of the initial required capital. We and Gaylord receive a 9% preferred return on our equity, and the remaining cash flow is distributed pro rata in accordance with the percentage of ownership interests, except that until the project has achieved an 11% yield, up to $3.5 million out of certain net sponsorship revenues will be distributed to us. We have the right to provide development, leasing and management services for the project, subject to the approval of the general partners for specified major decisions, including a sale or refinancing of the project and approval of annual budgets.
At specified times, following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening or at any time after the opening if the partners are unable to agree on specified major decisions, either we or Gaylord can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, either party, as the offeror, may require the other party, as the offeree, to elect to either sell to the offeror the offeree's interest in the partnership or purchase from the offeror the offeror's interest in the partnership for cash.
ARUNDEL MILLS - ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY, MARYLAND. Arundel Mills opened in November 2000 and contains approximately 1.0 million square feet of gross leasable area comprised of approximately 460,000 square feet of anchor gross leasable area and approximately 540,000 square feet of specialty store space. Arundel Mills currently has 11 anchors, including: Bed, Bath & Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, F.Y.E. (For Your Entertainment), Jillian's, Muvico Theatres, Off 5th - Saks Fifth Avenue, Off Broadway Shoes, Old Navy, Sun & Ski Sports and T.J. Maxx. Arundel Mills has two additional anchor commitments, including Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, which will open in 2001. Arundel Mills is located on an approximately 107-acre site near the intersection of the Baltimore-Washington Parkway and State Route 100 in Anne Arundel County, Maryland.
Arundel Mills is owned by a limited partnership among us, with a 37.5% interest, Simon Property, with a 37.5% interest, and Kan Am with a 25% interest. Kan Am has contributed $35.0 million (which represents 50% of the estimated equity requirements for the project). We and Simon Property have contributed the balance of this initial required capital on a pro rata basis. We, Simon Property and Kan Am receive a 9% preferred return on our equity, and the remaining cash flow is distributed pro rata in accordance with the percentage ownership interests. We and Simon Property have guaranteed Kan Am's receipt of this preferred return until qualified permanent financing is secured for the project. We and Simon Property have the right to provide development, management and leasing services for the project. Specified major decisions are subject to Simon Property's and Kan Am's approval, which include changes to the plan of development, the annual operating budget and any proposed sale or refinancing.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening, either we and Simon Property together or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, we and Simon Property can require Kan Am to sell us, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require us and Simon Property to acquire, for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property at our and Simon Property's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership. In addition, at specified times following the occurrence of a Change of Control Transaction with respect to the Company, Kan Am can exercise the buy-sell provision and require us and Simon Property to acquire for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property at our and Simon's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership.
At any time, during the operating period, if we or Simon are unable to agree on specified major decisions, at any time following the tenth anniversary of the project's completion date or at any time if certain named executive officers of either us or Simon are no longer executive officers, either we or Simon can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, either party, as the offeror, may require the other party, as offeree, to elect to either sell to the offeror the offeree's interest in the limited liability company or purchase from the offeror the offeror's interest in the limited liability company for cash, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - EXISTING MILLS AND EXISTING COMMUNITY CENTERS COMBINED (9), (10), (11)
The following tables set forth certain information regarding capital expenditures for the Mills and the Community Centers combined for each of the last three years and a 3-year average. Only 2000 data is available for The Block at Orange.
- -----------------
(1) Recurring non-tenant capital expenditures include expenditures that are not tenant related nor recoverable from tenants. (2) Includes annual costs divided by total GLA (excluding space owned by certain store tenants) of our Properties. (3) Tenant Improvements/Leasing costs include tenant specific costs including tenant improvements, tenant allowances and capitalized internal leasing costs. (4) Calculated as Recurring Tenant Improvements/Leasing Costs divided by GLA of all Recurring Store Openings (including spaces requiring no expenditures). (5) Calculated as Non-Recurring Tenant Improvements/Leasing Costs divided by GLA of all Non-Recurring Store Openings. (6) Work in process will be shown as Recurring or Non-Recurring in the year that the work is completed. (7) Excludes expansion costs for Sawgrass Phase III (the Oasis), Ontario Mills and Grapevine Mills. (8) Calculated as Work In Process divided by GLA of all space with work in process. (9) Excludes projects that have not reached stabilized performance levels. (10) Capital expenditures include only the Company's share of costs related to the joint venture projects. The capital expenditures for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, have been adjusted to include only the Company's share of costs related to the joint ventures versus the total costs for the joint ventures as reported previously. (11) The Company sold ten of its eleven community centers on August 3, 2000.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - EXISTING MILLS AND BLOCK (9), (10)
The following table sets forth certain information regarding capital expenditures for the existing Mills (Potomac Mills, Franklin Mills, Sawgrass Mills, Gurnee Mills, Ontario Mills, Grapevine Mills, Arizona Mills and The Block at Orange) for each of the last three years and a 3-year average. Only 2000 data is available for The Block at Orange.
- -----------------
(1) Recurring non-tenant capital expenditures include expenditures that are not tenant related nor recoverable from tenants. (2) Includes annual costs divided by total GLA (excluding space owned by certain store tenants) of our properties. (3) Tenant Improvements/Leasing Costs include tenant specific costs including tenant improvements, tenant allowances and capitalized internal leasing costs. (4) Calculated as Recurring Tenant Improvements/Leasing Costs divided by GLA of all Recurring Store Openings (including spaces requiring no expenditures). (5) Calculated as Non-Recurring Tenant Improvements/Leasing Costs divided by GLA of all Non-Recurring Store Openings. (6) Work in process will be shown as Recurring or Non-Recurring in the year that the work is completed. (7) Excludes expansion costs for Sawgrass Phase III (The Oasis), Ontario Mills and Grapevine Mills. (8) Calculated as Work In Process divided by GLA of all space with work in process. (9) Excludes projects that have not reached stabilized performance levels. (10) Capital expenditures include only the Company's share of costs related to the joint venture projects. The capital expenditures for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, have been adjusted to include only the Company's share of costs related to the joint ventures versus the total costs for the joint ventures as reported previously.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - COMMUNITY CENTERS (8)
The following table sets forth certain information regarding capital expenditures for the Community Centers for each of the last three years and a 3-year average.
- ----------------
(1) Recurring non-tenant capital expenditures include expenditures that are not tenant related nor recoverable from tenants. (2) Includes annual costs divided by total GLA (excluding space owned by certain store tenants) of the Community Centers. (3) Tenant Improvements/Leasing Costs include tenant specific costs including tenant improvements, tenant allowances and capitalized internal leasing costs. (4) Calculated as Recurring Tenant Improvements/Leasing Costs divided by GLA of all Recurring Store Openings (including spaces requiring no expenditures). (5) Calculated as Non-Recurring Tenant Improvements/Leasing Costs divided by GLA of all Non-Recurring Store Openings. (6) Work In Process will be shown as Recurring or Non-Recurring in the year that the work is completed. (7) Calculated as work in process divided by GLA of all space with work in process. (8) The Company sold ten of its eleven community centers on August 3, 2000.
SUMMARY OF OUTSTANDING CONSOLIDATED INDEBTEDNESS (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
As of December 31, 2000, the Company had outstanding consolidated indebtedness in an aggregate amount of approximately $966.5 million (excluding its pro rata share of unconsolidated joint venture debt) as set forth below:
(1) This indebtedness is a 30 year amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment on December 18, 2003. In the event the mortgage loan is not repaid by the anticipated balloon repayment date, the annual interest rate for each tranche will be increased by 2% per annum in excess of the stated interest rate. In addition, excess cash flow available after payment of the increased interest rate and scheduled amortization will be used to reduce the principal balance of the loan. Principal repayments are based on the scheduled amortization, assuming a 7% mortgage interest rate, over a 30 year period, with the monthly amortization payments being applied sequentially, beginning with Tranche A to reduce the principal balance.
(2) Prepayments, in whole or in part, are permitted upon at least 15 days notice. In addition, the Company is required to pay a prepayment penalty equal to the greater of (i) 1% of the remaining principal balance or (ii) a yield preservation payment. Generally, yield preservation payments are intended to compensate the lender for the total amount of interest it would have earned on the indebtedness but for the repayment, less the amount of interest that the lender could earn if it invested the repayment amount in United States Treasury obligations or other similar securities from the date of the repayment through the maturity date of the indebtedness. (3) This indebtedness is a 30 year amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment on May 5, 2007. In the event the mortgage loan is not repaid by the anticipated balloon repayment date, the annual interest rate will be increased by 5% per annum in excess of the stated interest rate. In addition, excess cash flow available after payment of the increased interest rate and scheduled amortization will be used to reduce the principal balance of the loan. (4) This indebtedness may be prepaid, without a prepayment penalty, beginning 180 days prior to May 5, 2007. Prior to that date, there is no right to prepay the indebtedness, except that $12.5 million of the principal balance, which has been allocated to the Liberty Plaza shopping center, may be defeased through the establishment of defeasance collateral (which may include government or agency securities that have the full faith and credit of the United States government). (5) The indebtedness is a non-amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon payment date of June 18, 2001. Prepayment on the entire loan balance is permitted with a 30 day written notice to lender. (6) Calculated using 30-day LIBOR at 6.56125, which was the rate at December 31, 2000. (7) Prepayable, in whole or in part, at any time without prepayment penalty. (8) The total commitment under the Line of Credit is $75,000. Funds are available subject to certain performance measures and restrictive covenants. This loan bears interest at a variable rate ranging from 175 bp to 275 bp over LIBOR subject to certain leverage tests (LIBOR + 275 bp at 12/31/00). (9) Primarily corporate debt with maturities under one year. Prepayable, in whole or in part, at any time without prepayment penalty. (10) Prepayable, in whole or in part, at any time, upon 3 days prior notice to lender without prepayment penalty. (11) The total commitment under this loan is $15,000. Funds are available subject to certain performance measures and restrictive covenants. The indebtedness matures on December 31, 2002. The loan is guaranteed by the Company. (12) The $50 million term loan is secured by the Company's interest in the Franklin Mills property. The loan has mandatory principal repayments in the amount of $5 million due on or before June 1, 2001, and $10 million due on or before June 1, 2002. (13) The indebtedness relates to capital leases for leasehold improvements and equipment for Foodbrand operations at Katy Mills, Franklin Mills, Opry Mills and Arundel Mills. The leases have five year terms and are guaranteed by the Company. (14) The indebtedness is a 10 year amortizing loan with a repayment date of July 21, 2010. Interest is payable at variable rate of LIBOR plus 425 bp for the first 24 months of the loan. After the first 24 months, the interest rate will be payable at a variable rate which will be the higher of LIBOR plus 425 bp or the 7 year Treasury Rate. The collateral for the loan is all the pushcarts and kiosks that are owned by Mainstreet Retail, an affiliate of the Company. Also, the loan is guaranteed by the Company. (15) The indebtedness is a non-amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment date of October 10, 2010. Interest is payable at a fixed rate of 7.96%. The loan may be prepaid upon 30 days notice to lender. The indebtedness may only be prepaid in whole prior to July 31, 2005, along with a prepayment penalty of not less than 1% of the principal amount prepaid. After July 31, 2005, the indebtedness may be prepaid in whole or in part, along with a prepayment penalty that will be subject to a reinvestment yield calculation. The debt is fully assignable. (16) The indebtedness is a non-amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment date of January 10, 2023. Interest is payable at fixed rate of 9.35%. The loan may be prepaid upon 30 days notice to lender. The indebtedness may only be prepaid in whole prior to July 31, 2005, along with a prepayment penalty of not less than 1% of the principal amount prepaid. After July 31, 2005, the indebtedness may be prepaid in whole or in part, along with a prepayment penalty that will be subject to a reinvestment yield calculation. The debt is fully assignable. (17) The indebtedness is an amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment date of August 6, 2018. Interest is payable at a blended rate of 6.50%. The loan may be prepaid beginning 90 days prior to August 6, 2018, provided the loan is prepaid in its entirety and includes a yield maintenance premium. The debt is fully assignable. (18) Calculated using 5 year Treasury at 4.976%, which was the rate at December 31, 2000. (19) The Company refinanced this debt on February 20, 2001, with a new mortgage loan in the amount of $355,000. The new debt is a 30 year amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment date of March 10, 2011. Interest is payable at a fixed rate of 7.46%. Proceeds from the loan were used to repay the existing loan and any remaining proceeds were used to pay down the line of credit.
SUMMARY OF OUTSTANDING UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURE INDEBTEDNESS (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
As of December 31, 2000, the unconsolidated joint ventures had outstanding indebtedness in an aggregate amount of approximately $1.3 billion as set forth below.
(1) This indebtedness is a 30 year amortizing loan with an anticipated repayment date of October 1, 2008. The loan has an interest only period through September 1, 2002. In the event the mortgage loan is not repaid by the anticipated balloon repayment date, the annual interest rate will be the greater of (i) the loan interest rate plus 2% or (ii) the yield calculated by linear interpolation of the yields of noncallable United States Treasury obligations with terms (one longer and one shorter) most nearly approximating the period from such date of determination to the anticipated repayment date. (2) This indebtedness may be prepaid, in whole or in part, upon 3 business days notice to the Administrative Agent. (3) The Company shall have the right to make prepayments of the loan, with a prepayment penalty subject to a yield maintenance calculation. If the prepayment occurs during the 3 months prior to the maturity date, there is no prepayment penalty. (4) Calculated using 30-day LIBOR at 6.56125, which was the rate at December 31, 2000. (5) This indebtedness is a 30 year amortizing loan with a balloon payment date of November 5, 2008. (6) Interest rate shall be LIBOR plus (a) 165 basis points until the following conditions have been satisfied: (i) the Construction Phase Completion Date has occurred, (ii) the Grand Opening Date has occurred, (iii) 33% of the Specialty Space has been and continues to be leased to Specialty Tenants and 55% of the Anchor Space has been and continues to be leased to Anchors, (iv) the DSC Ratio for any Calculation Period is equal to or greater than 1.00 and (v) no Event of Default is continuing. Once these conditions have been satisfied, the Interest Rate shall be LIBOR plus 125 bp when the DSC Ratio for any period is equal to or greater than 1.40. Interest Rate will reduce to LIBOR plus 115 bp when the DSC Ratio for any period is equal to or greater than 1.50. (7) Interest Rate shall be LIBOR plus (a) 165 basis points until the following conditions have been satisfied: (i) the Construction Phase Completion Date has occurred and the project has achieved a DSC ratio of 1.00, the interest rate shall be LIBOR plus 150 bp; (ii) the project has achieved a DSC ratio of 1.30 and a debt yield of 12.0% for a minimum of three months, the interest rate shall be LIBOR plus 125 bp; (iii) the project has achieved a DSC ratio of 1.35 and a debt yield of 12.5% for a subsequent three months, the interest rate will be LIBOR plus 110 bp. (8) This indebtedness may be prepaid with penalty based on a Yield Maintenance Premium calculation. If prepayment occurs during the 3 months prior to the maturity date, there is no prepayment penalty. (9) This indebtedness is a 30 year amortizing loan with an anticipated repayment date on December 1, 2008. In the event the mortgage is not repaid by the anticipated balloon repayment date, the annual interest rate will be the greater of (i) the loan interest rate plus 5% or (ii) the Treasury Rate plus 5%. (10) Principal guaranteed by the Company is equal to 50% of the outstanding principal balance. The guarantee will reduce to 0% upon successful tax subdivision of a land parcel that is owned by the Grapevine Mills II joint venture. (11) Principal is guaranteed by the Company, reduced as follows: (i) as of closing, the "Guaranteed Amount" was 100% of Loan Amount; (ii) upon construction completion, grand opening and a Debt Service Coverage ratio of 1.00 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to $68,000; (iii) upon achieving a DSC ratio of 1.25 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to $34,000; (iv) upon achieving a DSC Ratio of 1.40 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to 10%; and (v) upon achieving a DSC Ratio of 1.50 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to 0%. As of December 31, 2000 the guarantee amount was $34,000. (12) Principal is guaranteed by the Company, reduced as follows: (i) as of closing, the "Guaranteed Amount" was 100% of Loan Amount; (ii) upon achieving a DSC Ratio of 1.35 and a debt yield of 12.5% will reduce to 0%. As of December 31, 2000, the guarantee amount was 0%. (13) The loan commitment has a term of three years with two one-year options. The interest rate will be Libor plus 135 basis points until completion and occupancy requirements are met. Once achieved, the interest rate will be Libor plus 120 basis points. The interest rate can be further reduced to Libor plus 110 basis points when the project achieves a debt service coverage for three months of 1.35. The new loan is guaranteed severally by the Company (50%) and Simon Property Group, L.P. (50%) and can be reduced as follows: (i) as of closing, the "Guaranteed Amount" was 100% of loan amount; (ii) 50% upon achieving completion and occupancy requirements; (iii) 35% upon achieving a DSC ratio of 1.20 for three consecutive months; (iv) 20% upon achieving a DSC ratio of 1.35 for three consecutive months subsequent to the prior condition. As of December 31, 2000, the guarantee amount was 10%. (14) The loan commitment has a term of three years with a one-year extension option. The principal is guaranteed by the Company and can be reduced as follows: (i) as of closing, the "Guaranteed Amount" was 100% of loan amount; (ii) upon completion of construction, grand opening and a Debt Service Coverage ratio of 1.00 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to 50%; (iii) upon achieving a Debt Service Coverage ratio of 1.25 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to 25%. As of December 31, 2000, the guarantee amount was 25%. (15) This indebtedness may be prepaid, in whole or in part, upon 5 business days notice to the Administrative Agent. (16) The indebtedness may be prepaid, in whole or in part, upon 3 business days notice to the Administrative Agent, provided that each prepayment under this loan shall include all interest accrued on the amount of principal prepaid (and all late charges and other sums that may be payable) through the date of prepayment. (17) The interest is considered as fixed, since the variable portion of the interest rate has a cap of 7.00% and a floor of 6.275%. (18) The loan commitment has a term of three years with a one-year extension option. The principal is guaranteed by the Company and can be reduced as follows: (i) as of closing, the "Guaranteed Amount" was 100% of loan amount; (ii) upon completion of construction, fulfilling certain occupancy requirements as defined per construction loan agreement and a debt service coverage ratio of 1.10 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to 50%. On September 29, 2000, the Company entered into a modification agreement whereby the loan commitment was increased from $168,000 to $176,500. As of December 31, 2000, the guarantee amount was 50%.
(19) Prepayable, in whole or in part, at any time upon 3 days prior notice to lender without prepayment penalty. Any partial prepayments shall be in $100,000 increments. (20) Principal and interest is guaranteed by the Company and Simon Property Group and may be reduced as follows: (i) as of closing, the "Guaranteed Amount" was 50% of loan amount; (ii) upon completion of construction, fulfilling certain occupancy requirements as defined in the construction loan agreement, the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to 25%; (ii) upon achieving a DSC ratio of 1.20 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to 17.5%; (iv) upon achieving a DSC ratio of 1.35 for three consecutive months subsequent to the prior condition the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to 10%. As of December 31, 2000, the guarantee amount was 50%. (21) Principal is guaranteed by the Company and Simon Property Group and is limited to 50% of principal and interest. (22) Prepayable, in whole or in part, at any time upon 10 days prior notice to lender without prepayment penalty. (23) This indebtedness may be prepaid in whole or in part, at any time upon 7 days prior notice to Lender without prepayment penalty. Prepayment shall include all interest accrued on loan through prepayment date (and all late charges and other sums that may be payable) through the date of prepayment. (24) Principal is guaranteed by the Company.
INCOME PRODUCING PROPERTY - FEDERAL INCOME TAX BASIS (IN THOUSANDS)
The following table sets forth certain information regarding federal income tax basis and depreciation of income producing property for the Mills (including Ontario Mills, Grapevine Mills, Arizona Mills, The Oasis at Sawgrass, Concord Mills, Katy Mills, Opry Mills and Arundel Mills, which are unconsolidated joint ventures) and The Block at Orange, which is an unconsolidated joint venture, as of December 31, 2000:
ITEM 3.