Item 2. Properties
The following tables set forth certain information relating to our properties as of December 31, 2001. The Operating Partnership holds, directly or indirectly, 100% of the equity interests in the entities that own Potomac Mills, Franklin Mills, Sawgrass Mills (Phases I and II and as of October 2001, The Oasis at Sawgrass), Gurnee Mills, Liberty Plaza, Concord Mills Marketplace and the 46 Net Lease Properties. The Operating Partnership also owns, directly or indirectly, an equity interest in the joint venture entity that owns Arizona Mills and varying partnership interests in the joint venture entities that own Ontario Mills, Grapevine Mills, The Block at Orange, Concord Mills, Katy Mills, Opry Mills, Arundel Mills and Discover Mills. Our partnership interests in the joint venture entities give us the right, among others, to receive after preferential payments on unreturned capital contributions generally, a percentage of net operating cash flow generated by a particular property and a percentage of net proceeds following the occurrence of a major capital event, such as the sale of the real property or the project or the receipt of proceeds arising from condemnation of the project. For a description of our partnership interests for existing properties generally, see "-Description of Existing Properties." The Operating Partnership has formed other joint ventures to develop additional properties. We have similar partnership interests under these joint venture agreements and we anticipate that we will have similar partnership interests under future joint venture agreements. For a description of our partnership interests for properties under development, see "Item 1. Business-Mills Under Construction-Development Pipeline."
SUMMARY OF PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Mills, the Block and the Community Centers as of December 31, 2001:
SUMMARY OF PROPERTIES, Continued
SUMMARY OF PROPERTIES, Continued
(1)Presents GLA of each of our operating properties. Included in GLA is 972,249 square feet owned by certain store tenants located as follows: Potomac Mills-80,000 square feet; Franklin Mills-209,612 square feet; Sawgrass Mills-281,774 square feet; Gurnee Mills-250,806 square feet; Ontario Mills-125,000 square feet; Concord Mills Marketplace 11,316; and Liberty Plaza-13,741 square feet. Ground leases at Franklin Mills of 152,370 square feet and at Grapevine Mills of 177,063 square feet are also included.
(2)Annualized base rent is defined as the contractual minimum rent of tenants comprising gross leaseable area at December 1, 2001 multiplied by 12, excluding tenants as noted in footnote (1).
(3)Anchor stores include all stores occupying at least 20,000 square feet and certain store tenants described in footnote (1).
PROPERTY OPERATING INCOME
(UNAUDITED, IN THOUSANDS)
The following table presents the property operating income for our wholly-owned properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties and provides details about certain line items within our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2001. The information in the table is not intended to represent net income according to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001
(1)Total property operating costs exclude management fees as follows: wholly owned properties of $4,212 and joint venture properties of $9,602. (2)Stabilized wholly-owned properties include Potomac Mills, Franklin Mills, Sawgrass Mills, Gurnee Mills, Liberty Plaza, and Mainstreet, the Company's push cart program. Stabilized unconsolidated joint venture properties include Ontario Mills, Grapevine Mills, Arizona Mills and The Block at Orange. (3)During the third and fourth quarters of 2000, the Company acquired a portfolio of 46 single tenant net lease properties from an unrelated third party. (4)The new wholly-owned property is Concord Mills Marketplace. New unconsolidated joint venture properties include The Oasis at Sawgrass, Concord Mills, Katy Mills, Opry Mills, Arundel Mills and Discover Mills. (5)During the third quarter of 2000, the Company sold ten of its eleven community centers (the "Disposed Properties") to an unrelated third party.
LEASE EXPIRATION SCHEDULES (1)
Wholly-Owned Properties
The following table summarizes the lease expirations assuming that none of the tenants exercise renewal options. Except as described in footnote (1), the minimum rent is the monthly contractual minimum rent of the expiring leases as of December 31, 2001, multiplied by 12.
(1)Excludes 847,249 square feet of gross leaseable area owned by tenants and a ground lease of 152,370 square feet.
(2)Anchor tenants are defined as any tenant whose GLA is at least 20,000 square feet.
LEASE EXPIRATION SCHEDULES (Continued) (1)
Unconsolidated Joint Ventures
The following table summarizes lease expirations assuming that none of the tenants exercise renewal options. Except as described in footnote (1), the minimum rent is the monthly contractual minimum rent of the expiring leases as of December 31, 2001, multiplied by 12.
(1)Excludes 125,000 square feet of GLA owned by tenants and a ground lease of 177,063 square feet.
(2)Anchor tenants are defined as any tenant whose GLA is at least 20,000 square feet.
RENTAL RATES (1)
The following tables present the average base rent per leased square foot of store openings and closings for the anchor and specialty tenant stores collectively (except as noted in footnote (1)) for each property for the five years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998, and 1997.
(1)Opry Mills, Arundel Mills and Discover Mills are excluded from this analysis, because they are in their initial lease-up phase. For the same reason, Ontario Mills is excluded for 1997, Grapevine Mills and Arizona Mills are excluded for 1998, The Block at Orange is excluded for 1999 and 2000, and The Oasis at Sawgrass, Concord Mills and Katy Mills are excluded for 2000.
(2)The re-leasing spread is the difference between per square foot openings and per square foot closings.
AVERAGE RENTS
The following table presents certain information regarding operating rents with respect to the existing Mills and The Block at Orange for the five years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, 1999, 1998, and 1997.
(1)Amounts exclude Mainstreet rental income of $4,708,000 for 2001, $4,308,000 for 2000, $2,659,000 for 1999, $2,511,000 for 1998, and $2,251,000 for 1997.
(2)Average percent leased is defined as total average space leased for which rent was being paid, excluding tenants with leases having a term of less than one year.
(3)Annual rent excludes $500,000 of ground lease rent for 1999 and $800,000 of ground lease rent for each of 1998 and 1997.
(4)Amount excludes rental income for those projects that opened in the reported year.
SPECIALTY STORE TENANT REPORTED SALES ANALYSIS
(1)The amounts presented above represent gross sales per square foot ("PSF") as reported by our specialty store tenants for each of the twelve-month periods ended December 31, presented above, and includes, for both current year and prior year periods, only those projects that in the Company's view have achieved stabilized performance levels. Those projects included in the respective years are as follows:
Potomac Mills, Franklin Mills, Sawgrass Mills, Gurnee Mills, Ontario Mills, Grapevine Mills, Arizona Mills, The Block at Orange, The Oasis at Sawgrass, Concord Mills and Katy Mills.
Potomac Mills, Franklin Mills, Sawgrass Mills, Gurnee Mills, Ontario Mills, Grapevine Mills, Arizona Mills, and The Block at Orange.
Potomac Mills, Franklin Mills, Sawgrass Mills, Gurnee Mills, and Ontario Mills.
(2)Excluding Sawgrass Mills and The Oasis at Sawgrass, which were impacted by the tragic events of September 11th, gross reported specialty sales per square foot was $314 for 2001 as compared with $318 for 2000, representing a decrease of 1.3%.
(3)For each of the years presented above, comparable sales include only those tenants that have been in occupancy for the prior 24-month periods ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999, respectively, as compared with sales for those same tenants as of December 31, of the prior year. Opry Mills, Arundel Mills and Discover Mills, which opened May 2000, November 2000, and November 2001, respectively, are excluded from this analysis, since these projects have not achieved stabilized performance levels.
(4)Excluding Sawgrass Mills and The Oasis at Sawgrass, which were impacted by the tragic events of September 11th, comparable sales for the year were $1,012,887 for 2001 as compared with $1,035,360 for 2000, representing a decrease of 2.17%.
Diversified Tenant Base
Because our projects represent a collection of various retail formats under one roof, we believe that our tenant base represents one of the more diversified mixes of retailers in the industry today. This is evidenced by the fact that no tenant represents more than 2.7% of 2001 base rent. We further believe that the overall credit of our tenant base is strong given the diversity of our retailers and the large number of manufacturer outlet tenants. Our universe of tenants continues to expand.
The following table, which includes our joint venture projects (Ontario Mills, Grapevine Mills, Arizona Mills, The Block at Orange, Concord Mills, Katy Mills, Opry Mills, Arundel Mills, and Discover Mills), sets forth certain information with respect to our ten largest tenants (measured by 2001 base rent) as of December 31, 2001:
During the third and fourth quarter of 2000, the Company acquired 46 single tenant net leased properties subject to net leases that operate as CVS pharmacies. The CVS properties are at various locations throughout the United States. The Net Leased Properties base rent represent 3.5% of 2001 base rent and contribute annually approximately $2.0 million to net income before minority interests.
(1)Includes T.J. Maxx and Marshalls.
(2)Includes GAP Outlet, Old Navy and Banana Republic.
(3)Includes Burlington Coat Factory and Totally 4 Kids.
(4)Includes Levi's Outlet and Dockers Outlet.
Description of Existing Properties
The following are descriptions of each of our existing Mills and The Block properties.
Potomac Mills-Woodbridge, Virginia. Potomac Mills contains approximately 1.6 million square feet of gross leaseable area, of which one anchor store tenant owns approximately 80,000 square feet. Potomac Mills opened in 1985 with a total of approximately 630,000 square feet of gross leaseable area. As a result of customer demand, Potomac Mills was expanded to approximately 1.2 million square feet of gross leaseable area in 1986. The Phase III expansion of Potomac Mills opened on September 30, 1993 and increased total gross leaseable area by approximately 355,000 square feet. We completed construction of a 63,000 square foot Van's Skate Park which opened in the spring of 2000. Potomac Mills has 18 anchors, including: IKEA, J.C. Penney Outlet, Marshalls, Spiegel Outlet, AMC Theatres,
The Sports Authority, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, T.J. Maxx, Syms, Group USA and Nordstrom Rack. Potomac Mills is situated on approximately 161 acres located approximately 20 miles southwest of Washington, D.C. Potomac Mills is adjacent to Interstate 95, which serves as one of the transportation backbones of the Washington metropolitan area. This location strategically positions Potomac Mills between the Washington/Baltimore metropolitan market to the north and Richmond, approximately 90 miles to the south. We own 100% of Potomac Mills.
Franklin Mills-Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Franklin Mills opened in 1989 and contains approximately 1.7 million square feet of gross leaseable area, of which two anchor store tenants own approximately 209,000 square feet. We began remerchandising Franklin Mills in 1996 by upgrading its tenant mix and began construction on an entertainment zone, including themed restaurants and interactive entertainment venues, in the first half of 1997, which was completed in November 1998. Franklin Mills has 19 anchors, including: Bed, Bath & Beyond, Last Call-Neiman Marcus, Marshalls, Nordstrom Rack, Office Max, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Jillian's, Syms and Sam Ash Music. Franklin Mills features what we believe is the largest concentration of outlet retailing in the Delaware Valley. With access from U.S. Highway 1 and the Pennsylvania Turnpike, Franklin Mills is strategically positioned approximately 15 miles northeast of Philadelphia's Center City and just west of Interstate 95, a major thoroughfare serving the greater Philadelphia/Wilmington metropolitan market. We own 100% of Franklin Mills.
Sawgrass Mills and The Oasis at Sawgrass-Sunrise, Florida. Sawgrass Mills, which opened in 1990, contains approximately 1.8 million square feet of gross leaseable area, of which three anchor store tenants own approximately 282,000 square feet. As a result of customer demand, Sawgrass Mills was expanded by approximately 136,000 square feet of gross leaseable area in 1995. We further expanded Sawgrass Mills by opening The Oasis at Sawgrass in April 1999. The Oasis at Sawgrass contains approximately 287,000 square feet of gross leaseable area comprised of approximately 132,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 155,000 square feet of specialty store space. The Oasis at Sawgrass currently has three anchor stores: Regal Theater, Sega Gameworks and Ron Jon Surf Shop. Other tenants include Cheesecake Factory and Legal Seafoods. Sawgrass Mills has 19 anchors, including: Beall's Outlet Store, Burlington Coat Factory, Last Call-Neiman Marcus, Spiegel Outlet, The Sports Authority, GAP and Sun & Ski Sports. Sawgrass Mills is located in Florida's "Gold Coast" market approximately 11 miles west of Fort Lauderdale. The site lies adjacent to both the Sawgrass Expressway and Flamingo Road, between Sunrise and Oakland Park Boulevards. The entire South Florida region is linked by the road network of the Sawgrass Expressway, Interstate 75 and Interstate 595, which intersect at an interchange located less than two miles southwest of Sawgrass Mills.
Effective October 2001, 1,245,000 units of the Operating Partnership were issued to Kan Am in exchange for the contribution by Kan Am of its 50% partnership interest in Mills-Kan Am Sawgrass Phase 3 Limited Partnership, the joint venture entity that owned The Oasis at Sawgrass. We now own 100% of The Oasis at Sawgrass in addition to 100% of Sawgrass Mills that we already owned.
Gurnee Mills-Gurnee, Illinois. Gurnee Mills opened in 1991 and contains approximately 1.6 million square feet of gross leaseable area, of which three anchor store tenants own approximately 251,000 square feet. We completed construction of an expansion of over 195,000 square feet of gross leaseable area in 1999, which added an ice skating rink to the existing mall. Gurnee Mills has been remerchandised resulting in the upgrade of the project's tenant mix. Gurnee Mills has 15 anchors, including: Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Circuit City, Rinkside Sports, J.C. Penney Catalog Outlet, Marshalls, Spiegel Outlet, Bed, Bath & Beyond, The Sports Authority, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, and T.J. Maxx. The project is located adjacent to Interstate 94, the major north/south thoroughfare linking Chicago and Milwaukee. Gurnee Mills is clearly visible from Interstate 94 and is situated directly across from Six Flags Great America, one of the largest amusement parks in the Midwest. We own 100% of Gurnee Mills.
Ontario Mills-Ontario, California. Ontario Mills opened in 1996 and contains approximately 1.5 million square feet of gross leaseable area comprised of approximately 1.0 million square feet of anchor space and approximately 500,000 square feet of specialty store space. In 1999, we completed a 136,000 square foot expansion which included tenants such as Van's Skate Park, Sam Ash Music, and Cost Plus. Ontario Mills currently has 22 anchors, including: Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Cost Plus, Dave & Busters, J.C. Penney Catalog Outlet, Burlington Coat Factory, Nike Factory Store, The Sports Authority, Off Broadway Shoes, Marshalls, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Mikasa, Off Rodeo Drive, T.J. Maxx, AMC Theatres, Virgin Megastore, Group USA, Foozles, Totally 4 Kids, Rainforest Cafe, Sam Ash Music, Sega Gameworks and Van's Skate Park. Ontario Mills has an additional anchor tenant commitment from Nordstrom Rack which will open in 2002. Ontario Mills is located at the intersection of Interstate 10 and Interstate 15 in the heart of the Riverside/San Bernardino area known as the "Inland Empire." Ontario Mills serves the Los Angeles/Orange County metropolitan market.
The Operating Partnership, Kan Am and Simon Property are the sole partners in the joint venture entities that own Ontario Mills. The initial required equity capital was contributed 50% by Kan Am, 25% by Simon Property and 25% by the Operating Partnership. Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreements, each partner receives a priority return equal to 9% per annum on its capital contribution. Any residual cash flow after preference payments are distributed 25% to Kan Am, 50% to the Operating Partnership and 25% to Simon Property. Following the occurrence of a major capital event, such as the sale of the real property or the project or the receipt of proceeds arising from condemnation of the project, each partner will receive its unpaid priority return and its unreturned capital contributions, and any residual cash flow will be distributed 25% to Kan Am, 50% to the Operating Partnership and 25% to Simon Property. We have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing of Ontario Mills, subject to the other joint venture partners' approval of specified major decisions, including sale or refinancing of Ontario Mills and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the fifth anniversary of the project's opening, either the Operating Partnership and Simon Property together or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, the Operating Partnership and Simon Property can require Kan Am to sell to the Operating Partnership for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require the Operating Partnership and Simon Property to acquire for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property, at the election of the Operating Partnership and Simon Property, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity.
At any time during the operating period, if the Operating Partnership or Simon Property are unable to agree on specified major decisions, at any time following the fifth anniversary of the project's completion date or at any time if certain named executive officers of the Company or Simon Property are no longer executive officers, either the Operating Partnership or Simon Property can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, either party, as the offeror, may require the other party, as offeree, to elect to either sell to the offeror the offeree's interest in the joint venture entity or purchase from the offeror the offeror's interest in the joint venture entity for cash, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements.
Grapevine Mills-Grapevine, Texas. Grapevine Mills opened in 1997 and contains approximately 1.5 million square feet of gross leaseable area comprised of approximately 1.0 million square feet of anchor space and approximately 520,000 square feet of specialty store space. Grapevine Mills currently has 19 anchors, including: AMC Theatres, Polar Ice, Old Navy, Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Burlington Coat Factory, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Group USA, Books-A-Million, Sega Gameworks, Virgin Megastore, and Sun & Ski Sports. Grapevine Mills has an additional anchor tenant commitment from Neiman Marcus which will open in 2002. Grapevine Mills is located on a
175-acre site located at the interchange of Highway 121 and International Parkway, two miles north of the Dallas/Fort Worth Airport in Grapevine, Texas. Grapevine Mills is approximately 19 miles northeast of downtown Fort Worth and serves the Dallas/Fort Worth metropolitan area.
The Operating Partnership, Kan Am and Simon Property are the sole partners in the joint venture entities that own Grapevine Mills. The initial required equity capital was contributed 50% by Kan Am, 25% by Simon Property and 25% by the Operating Partnership. Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreements, each partner receives a priority return equal to 9% per annum on its capital contribution. Any residual cash flow after preference payments are distributed 25% to Kan Am, 37.5% to the Operating Partnership and 37.5% to Simon Property. Following the occurrence of a major capital event, such as the sale of the real property or the project or the receipt of proceeds arising from condemnation of the project, each partner will receive its unpaid priority return and its unreturned capital contributions, and any residual cash flow will be distributed 25% to Kan Am, 37.5% to the Operating Partnership and 37.5% to Simon Property. We have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing of Grapevine Mills, subject to the other joint venture partners' approval of specified major decisions, including sale or refinancing of Grapevine Mills and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening or, if earlier, upon a change in control of the Company, either the Operating Partnership and Simon Property together or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, the Operating Partnership and Simon Property can require Kan Am to sell to the Operating Partnership for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require the Operating Partnership and Simon Property to acquire for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property, at the election of the Operating Partnership and Simon Property, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Only Kan Am may invoke the buy-sell provision in the event of a change in control of the Company.
At any time during the operating period, if the Operating Partnership or Simon Property are unable to agree on specified major decisions, at any time following the tenth anniversary of the project's completion date or at any time if certain named executive officers of the Company or Simon Property are no longer executive officers, either the Operating Partnership or Simon Property can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, either party, as the offeror, may require the other party, as offeree, to elect to either sell to the offeror the offeree's interest in the joint venture entity or purchase from the offeror the offeror's interest in the joint venture entity for cash, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements.
Arizona Mills-Tempe, Arizona. Arizona Mills opened in 1997 and contains approximately 1.2 million square feet of gross leaseable area comprised of approximately 700,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 520,000 square feet of specialty store space. Arizona Mills currently has 17 anchors, including: Burlington Coat Factory, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Last Call-Neiman Marcus, Oshman's, Harkins Cinema, Hilo Hattie, J.C. Penney, Group USA, Hi-Health, Virgin Megastore and Sega Gameworks. The project is located on a 115-acre site located 20 minutes from downtown Phoenix, at the intersection of Interstate 10 and Superstition Freeway (Highway 60).
Arizona Mills is owned by a limited liability company owned by the Operating Partnership, with a 36.8% equity interest, Taubman Realty, with a 36.8% equity interest, and Simon Property, with a 26.4% equity interest. Each joint venture partner has contributed its required equity capital. Cash flow is distributed, and other payments are made, to each partner in accordance with each partner's respective equity interest. We have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing of
Arizona Mills, subject to the other joint venture partners' approval of specified major decisions, including sale or refinancing of Arizona Mills and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the later of the fifth anniversary of the project's opening or the date that 90% of the project has been leased, if the joint venture partners are unable to agree upon specified major decisions (including, among others, sales, refinancings, expansions, and certain capital expenditures), any joint venture partner can cause the project to be sold pursuant to specified procedures.
The Block at Orange-Orange, California. The Block at Orange opened in November 1998 and contains approximately 655,000 square feet of gross leaseable area comprised of approximately 385,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 270,000 square feet of specialty store space. The Block at Orange currently has 10 anchors, including: Borders Books and Music, Van's Skate Park, Virgin Megastore, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Ron Jon Surf Shop, Power House, AMC Theatres, Dave & Busters, Hilo Hattie, and Mars Music. The Block at Orange is located on an 85-acre site located at the intersection of the Santa Ana Freeway (I-10), the Garden Grove Freeway and Orange Freeway (Highway 57) in the City of Orange, California, three miles from Disneyland.
The Operating Partnership and Kan Am are the sole partners in the joint venture entity that owns The Block at Orange. Kan Am contributed the entire estimated equity requirement of $60 million. Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreement, Kan Am receives a priority return equal to 9% per annum on its capital contribution. Any residual cash flow after preference payments are distributed 50% to Kan Am and 50% to the Operating Partnership. Following the occurrence of a major capital event, such as the sale of the real property or the project or the receipt of proceeds arising from condemnation of the project, Kan Am will receive its unpaid priority return and its unreturned capital contributions, and any residual cash flow will be distributed 50% to Kan Am and 50% to the Operating Partnership. We have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing of The Block at Orange, subject to the other joint venture partners' approval of specified major decisions, including sale or refinancing of The Block at Orange and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening or, if earlier, upon a change in control of the Company, either the Operating Partnership or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, the Operating Partnership can require Kan Am to sell to the Operating Partnership for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require the Operating Partnership to acquire for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, at the Operating Partnership's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Only Kan Am may invoke the buy-sell right in the event of a change in control of the Company.
The Operating Partnership has guaranteed to Kan Am the payment of its priority return, subject to an aggregate limit of $10,800,000. This aggregate limit is to be reduced annually by the sum of $1,080,000 in each year in which the Operating Partnership was not required to make payments under the guaranty, but not below $5,400,000. This guarantee will terminate upon the earlier of May, 2006, or such time as the partnership's cash flow in any fiscal year exceeds $8,000,000.
Concord Mills-Concord, North Carolina. Concord Mills opened in 1999 and contains approximately 1.2 million square feet of gross leaseable area comprised of approximately 691,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 556,000 square feet of specialty store space. Concord Mills currently has 16 anchors including: Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, AMC Theatres, Jillian's, Sun & Ski Sports, Alabama Grill, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Burlington Coat Factory, T.J. Maxx, F.Y.E. (For Your Entertainment), and Old Navy. Concord Mills is located on an 165-acre site at the intersection of interstate 85 and Concord Mills Boulevard in the city of concord which is approximately ten miles north of downtown Charlotte.
The Operating Partnership, Kan Am and Simon Property are the sole partners in the joint venture entities that own Concord Mills. The initial required equity capital was contributed 50% by Kan Am, 25% by Simon Property and 25% by the Operating Partnership. Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreements, each partner receives a construction period preference until construction is substantially completed and permanent financing is secured and will receive a priority thereafter, equal to 9% per annum on its capital contribution. Any residual cash flow after preference payments are distributed 25% to Kan Am, 37.5% to the Operating Partnership and 37.5% to Simon Property. The Operating Partnership and Simon Property currently guarantee Kan Am's construction period preference and Kan Am's portion of construction debt and will continue these guaranties until qualified permanent financing is secured for the project. As of December 31, 2001, Kan Am's unpaid preference was $0.6 million. Following the occurrence of a major capital event, such as the sale of the real property or the project or the receipt of proceeds arising from condemnation of the project, each partner will receive its unpaid construction period preference, its unpaid priority return and its unreturned capital contributions, and any residual cash flow will be distributed 25% to Kan Am, 37.5% to the Operating Partnership and 37.5% to Simon Property. We have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing of Concord Mills, subject to the other joint venture partners' approval of specified major decisions, including sale or refinancing of Concord Mills and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening, either the Operating Partnership and Simon Property together or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, the Operating Partnership and Simon Property can require Kan Am to sell to the Operating Partnership for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require the Operating Partnership and Simon Property to acquire for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property, at the election of the Operating Partnership and Simon Property, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity.
At any time during the operating period, if the Operating Partnership or Simon Property are unable to agree on specified major decisions, at any time following the fifth anniversary of the project's completion date or at any time if certain named executive officers of the Company or Simon Property are no longer executive officers, either the Operating Partnership or Simon Property can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, either party, as the offeror, may require the other party, as offeree, to elect to either sell to the offeror the offeree's interest in the joint venture entity or purchase from the offeror the offeror's interest in the joint venture entity for cash, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements.
Katy Mills-Katy, Texas. Katy Mills opened in 1999 and contains approximately 1.2 million square feet of gross leaseable area comprised of approximately 605,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 585,000 square feet of specialty store space. Katy Mills currently has 13 anchors including: Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Burlington Coat Factory, AMC Theatres, F.Y.E. (For Your Entertainment), Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Sun & Ski Sports, Old Navy, Jillian's, and Marshalls. Katy Mills is located on a 500-acre site at the intersection of Interstate 10 and Katy-Fort Bend Road in Fort Bend and Harris Counties which is approximately 20 miles west of Houston.
The Operating Partnership and Kan Am are the sole partners in the joint venture entity that owns Katy Mills and an interest in an additional development site located approximately two miles from the Katy Mills property. Kan Am contributed $78.8 million, representing 75% of the total estimated equity requirement, and the Operating Partnership contributed the balance of the total estimated equity requirement. Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreement, the Operating Partnership and Kan Am each receives a construction period preference until construction is substantially completed and permanent financing is secured, and will receive a priority return thereafter, equal to 9% per annum on
its capital contribution. Any residual cash flow after preference payments are distributed 37.5% to Kan Am and 62.5% to the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership currently guarantees Kan Am's construction period preference and Kan Am's portion of construction debt and will continue these guaranties until qualified permanent financing is secured for the project. As of December 31, 2001, Kan Am's unpaid preference was $1.8 million. Under the joint venture agreement, following the occurrence of a major capital event, such as the sale of the real property or the project or the receipt of proceeds arising from condemnation of the project, each partner will receive its unpaid construction loan preference, its unpaid priority return and, on a pro rata basis, its unreturned capital contributions and any residual cash flow will be distributed 62.5% to the Operating Partnership and 37.5% to Kan Am. We have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing of Katy Mills, subject to the other joint venture partners' approval of specified major decisions, including sale or refinancing of Katy Mills and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening, either the Operating Partnership or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, the Operating Partnership can require Kan Am to sell to the Operating Partnership for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require the Operating Partnership to acquire for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, at the Operating Partnership's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity.
Opry Mills-Nashville, Tennessee. Opry Mills opened in May 2000 and contains approximately 1.1 million square feet of gross leaseable area comprised of approximately 595,000 square feet of anchor space and approximately 517,000 square feet of specialty store space. Opry Mills currently has 16 anchors including: Alabama Grill, Barnes & Noble, Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Gibson Guitar, Jillian's, Off Broadway Shoes, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Old Navy, Regal Theatre, Sun & Ski Sports and Tower Records. Opry Mills is located on a 67-acre site that is adjacent to the Opryland Hotel and Convention Center.
The Operating Partnership and Gaylord Entertainment Company are the sole partners in the joint venture entity that owns Opry Mills. Gaylord contributed the land for the project, which was valued at $25 million, as its portion of the initial required capital. The Operating Partnership contributed $50 million as its portion of the initial required capital. The Operating Partnership and Gaylord each receive a 9% priority return. Cash flow is used first to pay the Operating Partnership's priority return, second to pay Gaylord's priority return, third to pay to the Operating Partnership special distributions of up to $3.5 million of certain net sponsorship revenues until the project achieves an 11% yield and finally, to the extent there exists any residual cash flow, for distributions to the partners-66.67% to the Operating Partnership and 33.33% to Gaylord. Following the occurrence of a major capital event, such as the sale of the joint venture's leasehold interest in the underlying land or receipt of proceeds arising from condemnation of the project, payments to the partners will be made in the following order of priority: (1) the Operating Partnership will receive its unpaid priority return; (2) Gaylord will receive its unpaid priority return; (3) each partner will receive its unreturned capital contributions on a pro rata basis; and (4) any residual cash flow will be distributed 66.67% to the Operating Partnership and 33.33% to Gaylord. We have the right to provide all the development, property management and leasing services for Opry Mills, subject to Gaylord's approval for specified major decisions, including the sale or refinancing of Opry Mills and approval of an annual budget.
At any time after the tenth anniversary of the project's opening or at any time after the opening if the partners are unable to agree on specified major decisions, either the Operating Partnership or Gaylord can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, either partner, as the offeror, may require the other partner, as the offeree, to elect to either sell to the offeror the offeree's interest in the joint venture or purchase from the offeror the offeror's interest in the joint venture for cash.
The Operating Partnership has guaranteed to the joint venture and to Gaylord the performance of our obligations under the joint venture agreement until the sale or transfer of Gaylord's interest in the joint venture to any entity that is not an affiliate or until the dissolution of the joint venture.
Arundel Mills-Anne Arundel County, Maryland. Arundel Mills opened in November 2000 and contains approximately 1.2 million square feet of gross leaseable area comprised of approximately 624,000 square feet of anchor gross leaseable area and approximately 538,000 square feet of specialty store space. Arundel Mills currently has 13 anchors, including: Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, F.Y.E. (For Your Entertainment), Jillian's, Muvico Theatres, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, Off Broadway Shoes, Old Navy, Sun & Ski Sports, The Children's Place, and T.J. Maxx. Arundel Mills has two additional anchor commitments ESPN Skate Park and Medieval Times which will open in 2002. Arundel Mills is located on an approximately 107-acre site near the intersection of the Baltimore/Washington Parkway and State Route 100 in Anne Arundel County, Maryland.
The Operating Partnership, Kan Am and Simon Property are the sole partners in the joint venture entities that own Arundel Mills. The initial required equity capital was contributed 50% by Kan Am, 25% by Simon Property and 25% by the Operating Partnership. Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreements, each partner receives a construction period preference until construction is substantially completed and permanent financing is secured, and will receive a priority return thereafter, equal to 9% per annum on its capital contribution. Any residual cash flow, after preference payments, are distributed 25% to Kan Am, 37.5% to the Operating Partnership and 37.5% to Simon Property. The Operating Partnership and Simon Property currently guarantee Kan Am's construction period preference and Kan Am's portion of construction debt and will continue these guaranties until qualified permanent financing is secured for the project. As of December 31, 2001, Kan Am's unpaid preference was $0.5 million. Following the occurrence of a major capital event, such as the sale of the real property or the project or the receipt of proceeds arising from condemnation of the project, each partner will receive it unpaid construction period preference, its unpaid priority return and its unreturned capital contributions, and any residual cash flow will be distributed 25% to Kan Am, 37.5% to the Operating Partnership and 37.5% to Simon Property. We have the right to manage the development, property management and leasing of Concord Mills, subject to the other joint venture partners' approval of specified major decisions, including sale or refinancing of Concord Mills and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening or, if earlier, upon a change in control of the Company, either the Operating Partnership and Simon Property together or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, the Operating Partnership and Simon Property can require Kan Am to sell to the Operating Partnership for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require the Operating Partnership and Simon Property to acquire for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership and limited partnership units of Simon Property, at the election of the Operating Partnership and Simon Property, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Only Kan Am may invoke the buy-sell provision in the event of a change in control of the Company.
At any time during the operating period, if the Operating Partnership or Simon Property are unable to agree on specified major decisions, at any time following the fifth anniversary of the project's completion date or at any time if certain named executive officers of the Company or Simon Property are no longer executive officers, either the Operating Partnership or Simon Property can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, either party, as the offeror, may require the other party, as offeree, to elect to either sell to the offeror the offeree's interest in the joint venture entity or
purchase from the offeror the offeror's interest in the joint venture entity for cash, subject to compliance with certain procedural requirements.
Discover Mills-Sugarloaf, Georgia. Discover Mills opened in November 2001 and contains 1.1 million square feet of gross leaseable area comprised of approximately 566,000 square feet of anchor gross leaseable area and approximately 522,000 square feet of specialty store space. Discover Mills currently has 12 anchors, including: Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World, Books-A-Million, Burlington Coat Factory, ESPN Skatepark, Last Call-Neiman Marcus, Off 5th-Saks Fifth Avenue, and Sun & Ski Sports. Discover Mills is located on an approximately 225-acre site just off Interstate 85 and Sugarloaf Parkway in Gwinette County, Georgia.
The Operating Partnership and Kan Am are the sole partners in the joint venture entity that owns Discover Mills. Kan Am contributed the entire estimated equity requirement of $75 million. Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture agreement, Kan Am will receive a construction period preference until construction is substantially completed and permanent financing is secured and will receive a priority return thereafter, equal to 9% per annum on its capital contribution. Any residual cash flow, after preference payments, are distributed 50% to Kan Am and 50% to the Operating Partnership. The Operating Partnership currently guarantees Kan Am's construction period preference and Kan Am's portion of construction debt and will continue these guaranties until qualified permanent financing is secured for the project. As of December 31, 2001, Kan Am's unpaid preference was $1.0 million. Following the occurrence of a major capital event, such as the sale of the real property or the project or the receipt of proceeds arising from condemnation of the project, Kan Am will receive its unpaid construction period preference, its unpaid priority return and its unreturned capital contributions, and any residual cash flow will be distributed 50% to Kan Am and 50% to the Operating Partnership. We have the right to provide all the development, property management and leasing services for Discover Mills, subject to Kan Am's approval for specified major decisions, including the sale or refinancing of Discover Mills and approval of an annual budget.
At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening or, if earlier, upon a change in control of the Company, either the Operating Partnership or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, the Operating Partnership can require Kan Am to sell to the Operating Partnership for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require the Operating Partnership to acquire for cash or limited partnership units of the Operating Partnership, at the Operating Partnership's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Only Kan Am may invoke the buy-sell right in the event of a change in control of the Company.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES-EXISTING MILLS, BLOCK AND COMMUNITY CENTERS
COMBINED (1) (2) (3)
The following tables present certain information regarding capital expenditures for the Mills, the Block and the Community Centers combined for each of the last three years and a 3-year average. Data is only available for 2001 and 2000 for The Block at Orange.
(1)Analysis excludes projects that have not reached stabilized performance levels.
(2)Capital expenditures include only the Company's share of costs related to the joint venture projects. The capital expenditures for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 have been adjusted to include only the Company's share of costs related to the joint ventures as compared with the total costs for the joint ventures as previously reported.
(3)The Company sold ten of its 11 community centers during the third quarter of 2000.
(4)Recurring non-tenant capital expenditures include expenditures that are neither tenant related nor recoverable from tenants.
(5)Expenditures divided by total GLA of the properties (excluding space owned by certain anchor store tenants).
(6)Recurring and non-recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs are comprised of tenant-specific costs including tenant improvements, tenant allowances and capitalized internal leasing costs.
(7)Calculated as recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs divided by GLA of all recurring store openings (including spaces requiring no expenditures.)
(8)Includes expansion costs for Franklin Mills and Gurnee Mills and non-recurring remerchandising costs. Excludes expansion costs for Sawgrass Mills Phase III (The Oasis at Sawgrass), Ontario Mills and Grapevine Mills.
(9)Calculated as non-recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs divided by GLA of all non-recurring store openings.
(10)Work in process is comprised of construction in progress that will be shown as recurring tenant improvement/leasing costs or non-recurring tenant improvement/leasing costs when the work is completed.
(11)Calculated as work in process divided by GLA of all space with work in process.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (Continued)-EXISTING MILLS AND BLOCK (1) (2)
The following table presents certain information regarding capital expenditures for the Mills and The Block for each of the last three years and a 3-year average. Data is only available for 2001 and 2000 for The Block at Orange.
(1)Analysis excludes projects that have not reached stabilized performance levels.
(2)Capital expenditures include only the Company's share of costs related to the joint venture projects. The capital expenditures for the twelve months ended December 31, 1999 have been adjusted to include only the Company's share of costs related to the joint ventures as compared with the total costs for the joint ventures as previously reported.
(3)Recurring non-tenant capital expenditures include expenditures that are neither tenant related nor recoverable from tenants.
(4)Expenditures divided by total GLA of the properties (excluding space owned by certain anchor store tenants).
(5)Recurring and non-recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs are comprised of tenant-specific costs including tenant improvements, tenant allowances and capitalized internal leasing costs.
(6)Calculated as recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs divided by GLA of all recurring store openings (including spaces requiring no expenditures.)
(7)Includes expansion costs for Franklin Mills and Gurnee Mills and non-recurring remerchandising costs. Excludes expansion costs for Sawgrass Mills Phase III (The Oasis at Sawgrass), Ontario Mills and Grapevine Mills.
(8)Calculated as non-recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs divided by GLA of all non-recurring store openings.
(9)Work in process is comprised of construction in progress that will be shown as recurring tenant improvement/leasing costs or Non-recurring tenant improvement/leasing costs when the work is completed.
(10)Calculated as work in process divided by GLA of all space with work in process.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (Continued)-COMMUNITY CENTERS (1)
The following table sets forth certain information regarding capital expenditures for the Community Centers for each of the last three years and a 3-year average.
(1)The Company sold ten of its 11 community centers during the third quarter of 2000.
(2)Recurring non-tenant capital expenditures include expenditures that are neither tenant related nor recoverable from tenants.
(3)Expenditures divided by total GLA of the properties (excluding space owned by certain anchor store tenants).
(4)Recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs and non-recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs are comprised of tenant-specific costs including tenant improvements, tenant allowances and capitalized internal leasing costs.
(5)Calculated as recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs divided by GLA of all recurring store openings (including spaces requiring no expenditures.)
(6)Calculated as non-recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs divided by GLA of all non-recurring store openings.
(7)Work in process is comprised of construction in progress that will be shown as recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs or non-recurring tenant improvements/leasing costs when the work is completed.
(8)Calculated as work in process divided by GLA of all space with work in process.
SUMMARY OF OUTSTANDING CONSOLIDATED INDEBTEDNESS
(Dollars in thousands)
As of December 31, 2001, the Company had outstanding consolidated indebtedness in an aggregate amount of approximately $1,024 million (excluding its pro rata share of unconsolidated joint venture debt) as set forth below:
(1)The debt is a 30-year amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment date of March 10, 2011. In the event the mortgage loan is not repaid by the effective maturity date (March 10, 2011), the annual interest rate for each note will be increased to the greater of the stated rate plus 5% or the existing treasury rate plus 5%.
(2)Prepayments, in whole or in part, are not permitted prior to December 10, 2010. After this date, and upon at least 30 days notice to Lender, prepayment in whole is permitted. Prior to December 10, 2010 and provided certain requirements have been completed and no event of default is outstanding, Borrower may defease a part or all of the outstanding loan balance through the establishment of defeasance collateral with the Lenders.
(3)This indebtedness is a 30-year amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment on May 5, 2007. In the event the mortgage loan is not repaid by the anticipated balloon repayment date, the annual interest rate will be increased by 5% per annum in excess of the stated interest rate. In addition, excess cash flow available after payment of the increased interest rate and scheduled amortization will be used to reduce the principal balance of the loan.
(4)This indebtedness may be prepaid, without a prepayment penalty, beginning 180 days prior to the maturity date. Prior to that date, the debt may not be prepaid, except that $12,500 of the principal balance, which has been allocated to the Liberty Plaza community shopping center, may be defeased through the establishment of defeasance collateral (which may include government or agency securities that have the full faith and credit of the United States government).
(5)The debt is a 5-year amortizing mortgage loan with an anticipated balloon repayment of July 6, 2006. Prepayments are permitted after June 6, 2006 within a 30-day written notice to the Lender and no prepayment penalties apply. The total loan amount is $300,000 of which $253,709 was allocated to Sawgrass Mills and $46,291 was allocated to The Oasis at Sawgrass.
(6)The loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 4.50%, however interest on the loan is considered to be fixed through June 7, 2003 due to an interest rate swap which locks in LIBOR at 2.84% on a notional amount of $37,000.
(7)Calculated using 30-day LIBOR at 1.87375%, which was the rate at December 31, 2001.
(8)The debt is a 5-year mezzanine loan with an anticipated balloon payment on July 7, 2006. The total loan amount is $37,000 of which $31,291 was allocated to Sawgrass Mills and $5,709 was allocated to The Oasis at Sawgrass.
(9)The indebtedness is a non-amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment date of October 10, 2010. The loan may be prepaid upon 30 days notice to the Lender. The indebtedness may only be prepaid in whole prior to July 31, 2005, along with a prepayment penalty of not less than 1% of the principal amount repaid. After July 31, 2005 the indebtedness may be prepaid in whole or in part, along with a prepayment penalty subject to a reinvestment yield calculation. The debt is fully assignable.
(10)The indebtedness is a non-amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment date of January 10, 2023. The loan may be prepaid upon a 30-day written notice to the Lender. The indebtedness may only be prepaid in whole prior to July 31, 2005, along with a prepayment penalty of not less than 1% of the principal amount repaid. After July 31, 2005, the indebtedness may be prepaid in whole or in part, along with a prepayment penalty subject to a reinvestment yield calculation. The debt is fully assignable.
(11)The indebtedness is an amortizing loan with an anticipated balloon repayment date of August 6, 2018. The loan may be prepaid beginning 90 days prior to August 6, 2018 provided the loan is prepaid in its entirety and includes a yield maintenance premium. The debt is fully assignable.
(12)The debt is prepayable, in whole or in part, at any time without prepayment penalty.
(13)The total commitment under this construction loan is $15,000. Funds are available subject to certain performance measures and restrictive covenants. The loan is fully guaranteed by the Company.
(14)The debt is a 10-year amortizing loan with a maturity date of July 21, 2010. Interest is payable at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 425 bp for the first 24 months of the loan. After the first 24 months, the interest rate will be payable at a variable rate which will be the higher of LIBOR plus 425 bp or the 7 year Treasury Rate. The collateral for the loan is the pushcarts and kiosks that are owned by Mainstreet Retail, an affiliate of the Company. The loan is fully guaranteed by the Company.
(15)The indebtedness relates to capital leases for leasehold improvements and equipment for FoodBrand operations at Katy Mills, Franklin Mills, Opry Mills, and Arundel Mills. The lease obligations are prepayable with yield maintenance after certain lock-out periods. The leases have five year lease terms and are fully guaranteed by the Company.
(16)The debt is a term loan secured by the Company's interest in Franklin Mills. The loan which is prepayable in whole or in part, at any time without a prepayment penalty, has a mandatory principal repayment in the amount of $10 million due on or before June 1, 2002.
(17)The total commitment under revolving loan is $75,000. Funds are available subject to certain performance measures and restrictive covenants. The line bears interest at a variable rate ranging from 175 bp to 275 bp over Libor subject to certain leverage tests and matures June 2, 2002.
(18)The debt is prepayable, in whole or in part, at any time, upon 3days prior notice to the Lender without prepayment penalty.
(19)Maturity date excludes any option periods.
SUMMARY OF OUTSTANDING UNCONSOLIDATED INDEBTEDNESS
(Dollars in thousands)
(1)The debt may be prepaid with a prepayment penalty subject to a yield maintenance calculation. If the prepayment occurs during the three months prior to the maturity date, there is no prepayment penalty.
(2)This indebtedness is a 30-year amortizing loan with an anticipated repayment date of October 1, 2008. The loan has an interest only payment period through September 1, 2002. In the event the mortgage loan is not repaid by the anticipated balloon repayment date, the annual interest rate will be the greater of (i) the loan interest rate plus 2% or (ii) the yield calculated by linear interpolation of the yields of noncallable United States Treasury obligations with terms (one longer and one shorter) most nearly approximating the period from such date of determination to the anticipated repayment date.
(3)As of July 3, 2000 this indebtedness may be prepaid, in whole or in part, upon ten business days notice to the Administrative Agent.
(4)This indebtedness is a 30-year amortizing loan with a balloon payment date of November 5, 2008.
(5)This indebtedness is a 30-year amortizing loan with an anticipated repayment date on December 1, 2008. In the event the mortgage is not repaid by the anticipated balloon repayment date, the annual interest rate will be the greater of (i) the loan interest rate plus 5% or (ii) the Treasury Rate plus 5%.
(6)This indebtedness is evidenced by two loans: a permanent loan in the amount of $108,000 and a mezzanine loan in the amount of $27,000. Interest on the loans is considered to be fixed at 8% through May 1, 2006 due to an interest rate swap which effectively fixed the interest rate at 8%.
(7)The indebtedness may be prepaid in whole (but not in part), on or after June 1, 2003.
(8)The mezzanine loan is guaranteed 100% by the Company. As of December 31, 2001, the guaranteed amount was $25,898.
(9)The loan commitment has a term of three years with two one-year options. The first one year option was exercised 12/2/01. The interest rate will be Libor plus 135 basis points until completion and occupancy requirements are met. Once achieved, the interest rate will be Libor plus 120 basis points. The interest rate can be further reduced to Libor plus 110 basis points when the project achieves a DSC ratio for three months of 1.35.
(10)Calculated using 30-day Libor at 1.87375%, which was the rate at December 31, 2001.
(11)The new loan is guaranteed severally by the Company (50%) and Simon Property (50%) and can be reduced as follows: (i) as of closing, the "Guaranteed Amount" was 100% of loan amount; (ii) reduced to 50% upon achieving completion and occupancy requirements; (iii) reduced to 35% upon achieving a DSC ratio of 1.20 for three consecutive months; (iv)and reduced to 20% upon achieving a DSC ratio of 1.35 for three consecutive months subsequent to the prior condition. As of December 31, 2001, the Company's guarantee amount was 17.5%.
(12)The indebtedness may be prepaid, in whole or in part, upon five business days notice to the Administrative Agent.
(13)The loan commitment has a term of three years with a one-year extension option. The principal is guaranteed by the Company and can be reduced as follows: (i) as of closing, the "Guaranteed Amount" was $168 million of the loan amount; (ii) upon completion of construction, the grand opening of the project and a DSC ratio of 1.00 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to $84 million. (iii) and upon achieving a DSC ratio of 1.25 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to $42 million. As of December 31, 2001, the guarantee amount was $42 million.
(14)The interest is considered fixed, since the variable portion of the interest rate has a cap of 7.00% and a floor of 6.275% through September 29, 2002.
(15)Calculated using 6.275%, the floor on the interest rate collar, plus the spread of 175 bp.
(16)The indebtedness may be prepaid, in whole or in part, upon three business days to the Administrative Agent, provided that each prepayment under this loan shall include all interest accrued on the amount of principal prepaid (and all late charges and other sums that may be payable) through the day of prepayment.
(17)The loan commitment has a term of three years with a one-year extension option. The principal is guaranteed by the Company and can be reduced as follows: (i) as of closing, the "Guaranteed Amount" was 100% of loan amount; (ii) upon completion of construction, fulfilling certain occupancy requirements as defined per construction loan agreement and a DSC ratio of 1.10 the Guaranteed Amount will reduce to 50%. On September 29, 2000, the Company entered into a modification agreement whereby the loan commitment was increased from $168,000 to $176,000. As of December 31, 2001, the guarantee amount was 50%.
(18)The indebtedness is prepayable, in whole or in part, at any time upon three days prior to notice to Lender without prepayment penalty. Any partial prepayments shall be in $100 increments.
(19)The principal and interest are guaranteed by the Company and Simon Property. The Company's guarantee may be reduced as follows: (i) upon closing the construction loan, the "Guaranteed Amount" was 50% of loan amount, (ii) upon completion of construction, and fulfilling certain occupancy requirements as defined in the construction loan agreement, the Guaranteed Amount was reduced to 25%; (iii) upon achieving a DSC ratio of 1.20 the Guaranteed Amount was reduced to 17.5%; (iv)upon achieving a DSC ratio of 1.35 for three consecutive months subsequent to the prior condition the Guaranteed Amount was reduced to 10%. As of December 31, 2001, the guarantee amount was 10%.
(20)Prepayable, in whole or in part, at any time upon ten days prior notice to Lender without prepayment penalty.
(21)The principal is guaranteed by the Company and Simon Property and is limited to 25% of principal and interest for each party.
(22)The interest rate will be Libor plus 225 basis points until the construction phase completion date has occurred, the DSC ratio has equaled or exceeded 1.25, the occupancy requirements are met, and there has been no event of default. Once achieved, the interest rate will be Libor plus 200 basis points. The interest rate can be further reduced to Libor plus 175 basis points when the project achieves a DSC ratio of 1.40 and the borrower has prepaid at least $10 million of the principal amount.
(23)Libor has been fixed at a rate of 291 bp on a notional amount of $126,672 through June 1, 2003.
(24)This indebtedness may be prepaid in whole or in part, at any time upon seven days prior notice to Lender without prepayment penalty. Prepayment shall include all interest accrued on loan through prepayment date (and all late charges and other sums that may be payable) through the date of prepayment.
(25)The principal and interest are guaranteed by the Company and may be reduced as follows: (i) upon completion of the construction phase, satisfaction of leasing and occupancy requirements per the loan agreement, and achievement of a DSC ratio of 1.10, the Guaranteed Amount will be 50% of the loan amount; or (ii) upon satisfaction of the previous conditions, leasing and occupancy requirements, and a DSC ratio of 1.25, the Guaranteed Amount will be 25% of the loan amount. As of December 31, 2001, the guarantee amount was 100%.
(26)Maturity date excludes any option periods which is an additional year for Concord Mills, Katy Mills, Opry Mills, Arundel Mills and Discover Mills.
(27)This indebtedness may be prepaid in whole (but not in part), on or after July 3, 2008.
(28)In January 2002, we entered into a one year LIBOR contract for the Arundel debt to fix LIBOR at 2.34% on a notional amount of $170,035 and a six month LIBOR contract on the Concord Mills debt to fix LIBOR at 1.92% on a notional amount of $178,100.
Income Producing Property-Federal Income Tax Basis (unaudited) (in thousands)
The following table sets forth certain information regarding federal income tax basis and depreciation of income producing property for the Mills (including Ontario Mills, Grapevine Mills, Arizona Mills, Concord Mills, Katy Mills, Opry Mills, Arundel Mills, and Discover Mills, which are unconsolidated joint ventures) and The Block at Orange, which is an unconsolidated joint venture, as of December 31, 2001:
Item 3.