Item 2. Properties
Our Portfolio
The following table sets forth certain information relating to the properties that we wholly and partially owned as of December 31, 2003. Please note the following items when reviewing the attached summary:
•GLA is stated in square feet and includes GLA that is owned by our tenants;
•Annualized base rent represents contractual minimum rent for tenants comprising the GLA at December 31, 2003; and
•Anchor stores are those tenants that occupy 20,000 square feet or more of GLA.
For information regarding encumbrances on our wholly owned properties, see "-Summary of Outstanding Consolidated Indebtedness," "Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K-Schedule III-Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation as of December 31, 2003," and Note 6 Mortgages, Notes and Loans Payable to our financial statements set forth under Item 8. For information regarding encumbrances on our partially owned properties, which we refer to as our joint venture properties in this Form 10-K, see "-Summary of Outstanding Unconsolidated Indebtedness."
We have formed other joint ventures to develop additional properties. We have similar partnership interests under these joint venture agreements and we anticipate that we will have similar partnership interests under future joint venture agreements. For a description of our interests in properties under construction, see "Item 1. Business-Development Pipeline-Projects Under Construction."
At December 31, 2003, the occupancy rate for our portfolio of properties was 93.3%. Occupancy includes all spaces leased for which rent is being earned as of December 31, 2003, excluding leases with an original term of less than one year.
Our Joint Venture Operating Properties
We own a significant number of our properties through various joint ventures. Most of our joint venture properties are owned through joint ventures with Kan Am and its affiliates. Our Kan Am joint venture agreements typically provide for the following material economic terms and rights:
•preferred returns of 9% or 11% on each partner's capital contribution;
•distribution of remaining operating cash flow based on the partners' residual sharing percentages after payment of preferred returns;
•distribution of proceeds upon a major capital event (such as a sale of the property or receipt of proceeds from a refinancing) to the partners so that the partners will receive, in the following order, (a) their respective accumulated but unpaid preferred returns, (b) their unreturned capital contributions and (c) the remaining residual cash, if any, based on their residual sharing percentages;
•management by us of the property subject to Kan Am's approval on certain major decisions such as refinancing or sale of a property; and
•buy-sell rights that become exercisable at specified times following a specified anniversary after the grand opening of the property that would enable (a) us to require Kan Am to sell its interest to us for cash or partnership units of Mills LP, at Kan Am's election, or (b) Kan Am to require us to acquire its interest for cash or partnership units of Mills LP, at our election, but in either case, the applicable joint venture agreement provides that the purchase price for Kan Am's interest in the property will be calculated based on the fair market value of such property.
We own Arizona Mills through a joint venture with Taubman Realty and own Madrid Xanadú through a joint venture with Parecelatoria De Gonzalo Chacün S.A., or PGC. Our Arizona Mills joint venture agreement does not provide for any preferred return but it contains a forced sale mechanism that would permit us or Taubman to cause the property to be sold pursuant to an agreed-upon procedure if we and Taubman are unable to agree to a specified major decision. This right is currently exercisable by either party.
The Madrid Xanadú project is comprised of two separate joint ventures with PGC-a joint venture that owns the retail and leisure component of the property and a joint venture that owns the Snow Dome, an indoor ski facility. The joint venture agreement for the Snow Dome joint venture provides for a preferred return to PGC and the joint venture agreement for each joint venture contains a put-call provision that gives PGC the right to require us to purchase its interests in both joint ventures.
The following table provides a summary of the key terms and rights of our real estate joint venture properties:
(1)Currently exercisable at specified times.
(2)We and our joint venture partners earn a 9% priority return on predetermined amounts of contributed capital. Any capital required in excess of the predetermined amounts earns an 11% priority return.
(3)We and PGC own the retail project and the Snow Dome through two separate joint ventures. The table shows our residual sharing and capital contribution percentages for the retail joint venture. Our residual sharing and capital contribution percentages for the Snow Dome joint venture are 33.3%. We and PGC each receive a 9% priority return on predetermined amounts of contributed capital at the Snow Dome joint venture. Any capital contribution required in excess of the predetermined amounts earns an 11% priority return. We alone earn a 9% priority return in the retail project joint venture.
(4)Following the grand opening but prior to the third anniversary of the grand opening, PGC has the right to require us to purchase PGC's interest in both the retail and the Snow Dome projects for a minimum purchase price of Euro 35.0 million (equivalent of US $44.0 million based on the exchange rate in effect as of December 31, 2003), which purchase price may be adjusted upward depending on the financial performance of the projects. After the third, but prior to the fifth, anniversary of the grand opening, PGC has the right to require us to purchase its interest in the retail project, and concurrently, we have the option to cause PGC to sell to us its interest in the Snow Dome project. Diversified Tenant Base
Because our properties contain various retail formats under one roof, we believe that our tenant base represents one of the more diversified mixes of retailers in the industry. We have an average of 148 tenants per property and no single tenant accounted for more than 2.4% of our base rent or 5.0% of our aggregate GLA as of December 31, 2003. We further believe that the overall financial stability of our tenant base is strong given the diversity of our retailers and the large number of manufacturer outlet tenants.
The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our ten largest tenants (measured by 2003 base rent) at our properties as of December 31, 2003:
(1)Includes The GAP, GAP Kids, Banana Republic and Old Navy.
(2)Jillian's occupies anchor spaces at seven of our projects. At two of these projects, Jillian's has not made certain lease payments. We do not believe that the aggregate amount of the delinquent lease payments has had or will have a material impact on our financial results.
(3)Includes TJ Maxx and Marshalls.
(4)Includes Bath and Body Works, The Limited, Express and Victoria's Secret.
(5)Includes Off Broadway Shoes and Rack Room Shoes. Lease Expiration
The following table summarizes the leases at our properties that will expire in each of the next ten years and thereafter assuming that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options. Annualized minimum rent is based on the monthly contractual minimum rent in effect on December 31, 2003. The following table does not include leases for anchor tenants that occupy more than 50,000 square feet of GLA at our 21st Century Retail and Entertainment Centers and 6.8 million square feet of tenant owned GLA and 0.6 million square feet of ground leases.
Development Pipeline
Our development pipeline consists of projects under construction and projects under development as more fully described below. A project is deemed to be under development if we have, at a minimum, performed substantive due diligence on the feasibility and desirability of constructing the project.
Projects Under Construction
We currently have three projects under construction, which we expect will have an aggregate of approximately 3.7 million square feet of GLA upon completion. Estimated total development costs for these projects is approximately $534 million. The estimated development costs will be funded through construction loans and joint venture partners'
and our equity contributions. The following table sets forth some information with regard to these projects as of December 31, 2003 (dollars in millions):
(1)Cincinnati Mills is in redevelopment and has remained open during construction. As such, anchor store tenant commitments and the percentage pre-leased include tenants currently open. We have contributed the total equity required for this project.
(2)The Company has contributed the total equity required for this project. The functional currency for Vaughan Mills is Canadian Dollars. The aggregate project cost is estimated at C$289 million.
(3)Leasing efforts have begun and several letters of interest from possible anchor stores have been received The following is a brief description of the three projects currently under construction:
Cincinnati Mills - Cincinnati, Ohio. We purchased 100% of Cincinnati Mills (formerly known as Forest Fair Mall) located in Cincinnati, Ohio in September 2002 and are currently redeveloping the mall. The grand re-opening will occur in August 2004. All current anchor stores are open during the renovation. In February 2004, we refinanced the then-existing mortgage debt on Cincinnati Mills with a new $122.0 million construction loan that we fully guarantee. The new loan matures in February 2007 and bears interest at LIBOR plus 200 basis points. To reduce our exposure to a potential rise in interest rates, we obtained two interest rate swaps that effectively fix the interest rate on the loan at 4.42% on a notional amount of $57.0 million through November 2004 and 5.88% on the same notional amount from December 2004 through October 2006.
Vaughan Mills - Toronto, Canada. This Landmark Mills Center is being developed jointly by us and Ivanhoe Cambridge, a shopping center developer/manager based in Montreal, Canada. Site construction began in June 2003 and anchor leases have been signed with Burlington Coat Factory, NASCAR Speedpark, H&M, The Children's Place, Bass Pro Shops Outdoor World and Lucky Strike Lanes for the project. In addition, we have obtained commitments from Winners, LaSenza & Tommy Hilfiger for additional anchor spaces. We anticipate opening the project in Fall 2004. The 180-acre site is located in the City of Vaughan, which is approximately 20 miles north of downtown Toronto, Canada.
We and Ivanhoe Cambridge each own an undivided 50% interest in Vaughan Mills as tenants in common. Pursuant to a co-ownership agreement with Ivanhoe Cambridge, each party will receive a proportionate share of all revenues received from the project and will be responsible for the payment of a proportionate share of all expenses associated with the project. At any time following the fourth anniversary of the opening of the project, we or Ivanhoe Cambridge may exercise a buy-sell provision pursuant to which the offering party can require that the other party either purchase for cash the entire interest of the offering party in the project, or sell to the offering party the interest of such other party. In March 2004, we obtained a $143.0 million (C$190.0 million) construction loan from an affiliate of Ivanhoe Cambridge. The loan bears interest at CDOR plus 2.25% and matures in 2006 with a one-year extension option.
Major decisions with respect to the project will require our approval and that of our joint venture partner. Disputes over decisions generally are subject to arbitration, but certain specified major decisions, such as the financing, sale or redevelopment of the project, the budget for the construction of the project and the initial decision to proceed with construction of the project, are not subject to arbitration.
Pittsburgh Mills - Pittsburgh Mills. In December 2002, Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh Limited Partnership ("Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh") and A.V. Associates Limited Partnership ("AV Associates") entered into a partnership agreement for the development of Pittsburgh Mills, which will be located on approximately 313 acres of land in Frazer Township, Pennsylvania.
AV Associates contributed a portion of the land on which the mall will be situated and the rights to acquire the remaining land that will be used for the mall, as its initial capital contribution. The currently agreed value of these contributions is approximately $9.7 million, which value may be reduced under certain circumstances. Mills-Kan Am
Pittsburgh has the option to fund any additional capital necessary for the development of the project until the one year anniversary of opening. If Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh does not elect to fund additional capital prior to the one year anniversary of opening or if additional capital is required after such one year anniversary date, each partner will have the option, but not the obligation, to fund any such additional capital with Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh funding 75% and AV Associates funding 25%. AV Associates will receive a construction period preference equal to 5.5% and a priority return during operations equal to 11% per annum on its qualifying initial capital contribution and 14% per annum on its qualifying additional capital contributions. Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh will receive a cumulative construction period preference equal to 11%, a priority return during operations equal to 11% per annum on its qualifying initial capital contributions and 14% per annum on its qualifying additional capital contributions. Any residual cash flow after preference payments and after repayment of all capital contributions will be distributed 75% to Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh and 25% to AV Associates.
Commencing one year after the opening and terminating three years after the opening, AV Associates may elect to convert a certain portion of its partnership interest in Pittsburgh Mills Limited Partnership to cash or limited partnership units of Mills LP, at our election. In addition, if, after the opening of Pittsburgh Mills and prior to the exercise of the AV Associates' conversion right described above, a dispute arises regarding a "Major Decision," as defined in the partnership agreement, either Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh or AV Associates can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, the partner receiving a buy/sell notice can elect to either purchase the other partner's interest in the project or sell its interest in the project to the other party. In addition, commencing on the five year anniversary of opening, AV Associates may put, and Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh may call, all of AV Associates' remaining partnership interest for a purchase price to be paid in cash or limited partnership units of Mills LP, at our option. The purchase price will be based on the fair market value of the property.
Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh, through which we will operate our interest in the Pittsburgh Mills project, is a limited partnership between us and Kan Am. Each partner is required to fund 50% of Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh's initial capital contribution. We anticipate that the total capital to be contributed by Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh to Pittsburgh Mills will be $63.4 million. As of December 31, 2003, we and Kan Am had contributed $22.3 million and $25.0 million, respectively, to Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh, of which $46.6 million had been contributed to Pittsburgh Mills Limited Partnership.
Under the terms of the Mills-Kan Am Pittsburgh limited partnership agreement, each partner will receive on a pro rata basis a cumulative construction period preference and a priority return during operations equal to 11% per annum on its unreturned capital contributions. Any residual cash flow after preference payments will be distributed 75% to us and 25% to Kan Am. Proceeds from a major capital event, such as the sale of the property, will be distributed 75% to us and 25% to Kan Am after the payment of any accrued but unpaid preferences and the return of all capital contributions. Commencing with the grand opening of the project, we will be entitled to receive an annual asset management fee that will be cumulative and will be payable solely out of Kan Am's share of cash flow or proceeds received for certain capital and other events after all priority returns are paid.
We will guarantee Kan Am's portion of construction debt until qualified permanent financing is secured for the project. In addition, we will guarantee all of Kan Am's construction period preference until the grand opening of the project but Kan Am's construction period preference that we guarantee will decrease from 11% to 9% during the period between the grand opening and the time of the qualified permanent financing.
Kan Am will have the right to require the joint venture to redeem Kan Am's interest in the joint venture if specified conditions have not been met by a "redemption date," in exchange for the sum of Kan Am's total equity investment plus any unpaid construction period preference payments. The "redemption date" is June 30, 2005 or twelve months following the date that Kan Am has fully contributed its required equity to the joint venture. This redemption obligation is guaranteed by us. The specified conditions include the closing and initial funding of the construction loan, and the receipt of proceeds from public financings. We expect these conditions to be satisfied in the spring of 2005, but no assurance can be given that such conditions will be satisfied by that date.
At specified times following the fifth anniversary of the opening of Pittsburgh Mills, or, if earlier, upon our change in control, either we or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell right. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, we can require Kan Am to sell to us for cash or limited partnership units of Mills LP, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require us to acquire for cash or limited partnership units of Mills LP, at our election, Kan Am's entire interest in the joint venture entity. Only Kan Am may invoke the buy-sell right in the event of our change in control.
Projects Under Development
In addition to the three projects currently under construction, we are also actively pursuing the development of other projects. These projects are in various levels of the due diligence stage during which we determine site/demographic viability, negotiate tenant commitments and work through third-party approval processes. Generally, we will not begin construction on these projects until we have completed our due diligence and have obtained significant pre-leasing commitments. While we currently believe that these projects will ultimately be completed, we cannot assure you that they will actually be constructed or that they will have any particular level of operational success or ultimate value. The following is a brief description of our current development projects:
Meadowlands Xanadu - East Rutherford, New Jersey. In December 2003, we executed a redevelopment agreement with the New Jersey Sports & Exposition Authority (the "NJSEA") pursuant to which we will redevelop the Continental Arena site in East Rutherford, New Jersey. We have teamed with Mack-Cali Realty Corporation, a leading owner and manager of class A office properties located primarily in the Northeast United States ("Mack-Cali"), and the New York Giants football organization. We are currently working with the NJSEA and other government agencies to finalize a ground lease for the site and we plan to begin construction by the third quarter of 2004.
Upon completion, Meadowlands Xanadu will include a family entertainment and recreation complex with five themed zones and an office and hotel component with four office buildings and a 520-room hotel with conference and exhibition facilities totaling 4.8 million square feet. The Meadowlands Xanadu proposal features the Snow Dome, America's first year-round indoor Alpine ski resort with real snow and chair lifts, and additional active and spectator activities. We have commenced leasing and licensing activities. We expect to announce additional tenant commitments later in 2004.
Meadowlands Xanadu will be developed by a joint venture between affiliates of Mack-Cali and Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership (the "Meadowlands Mills/Mack-Cali LP"). Upon formation, in exchange for certain contributions and pre-formation expenditures, Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership received an initial capital account credit of approximately $134,000,000 and Mack-Cali received an initial capital account credit of approximately $290,000. Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership, the entity through which we and Kan Am will hold our respective interests in the project, is obligated to contribute 80% of all additional capital to Meadowlands Mills/Mack-Cali LP up to a maximum of 40% of net project costs, and Mack-Cali is obligated to contribute 20% of all additional capital (with certain exceptions) to Meadowlands Mills/Mack-Cali LP up to a maximum of $32,500,000. Each of Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership and Mack-Cali receives a cumulative preference equal to 9% on its capital contributions. Any residual cash flow after preference payments, repayment of all capital contributions and payment to the owner of the New York Giants football organization, as described above, will be distributed 80% to Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership and 20% to Mack-Cali.
Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership is the managing general partner and Mack-Cali Meadowlands Special LLC is the special general partner of Meadowland Mills/Mack-Cali LP, with rights to approve certain "Major Decisions" of the partnership. All disputes arising under the partnership agreement are required to be submitted to mediation and, if necessary after such mediation, submitted to arbitration.
Commencing three years after the opening, either Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership or Mack-Cali may sell its partnership interest to a third party subject to the following provisions:
•Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership has certain "drag-along" rights and Mack-Cali has certain "tag-along rights" in connection with such sale of interest to a third party; and
•Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership has a right of first refusal with respect to a sale by Mack-Cali of its partnership interest.
In addition, commencing on the sixth anniversary of opening, Mack-Cali may cause Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership to purchase, and Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership may cause Mack-Cali to sell to Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership, all of Mack-Cali's partnership interests at a price based on the fair market value of the project.
The partnership agreement for Meadowlands Mills/Mack-Cali LP contemplates that Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership will develop the entertainment/retail portion of the project and that Mack-Cali may elect to develop the hotel and office portions of the project. If Mack-Cali so elects, then Mack-Cali is obligated to contribute 80% of all required equity and Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership is obligated to contribute 20% of all required equity and Mack-Cali and Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership will have residual sharing percentages of 80% and 20%, respectively, after payment of all preferred returns and return of capital. If Mack-Cali does not elect to develop
the hotel and office portions, Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership may develop the hotel and office portions with or without a third party partner or sell the leasehold rights in the hotel and office land parcels. If Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership elects to develop the hotel and office portions, then Mack-Cali may elect to participate in such development with an obligation to fund 20% of all required equity and will receive a residual sharing percentage of 20% after payment of all preferred returns and return of capital.
Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership is a joint venture between us and Kan Am. Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership has also entered into agreements with Empire, Ltd., the current owner of the "Empire Tract" and Bennett S. Lazare, Esq. pursuant to which Empire, Ltd. and Mr. Lazare have the right to become limited partners in the partnership with a combined twenty percent (20%) limited partnership interest. As of December 31, 2003, we had invested $144.0 million, including capitalized interest, in Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership. Of the amount we had invested as of December 31, 2003, $72.0 million is an advance to Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership. Kan Am's invested capital in Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership was $24.0 million as of December 31, 2003. The Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership agreement provides for Kan Am's right to require Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership to redeem its interest in the joint venture if a construction loan is not obtained by June 30, 2005.
In conjunction with the formation of Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership, we acquired a mortgage interest in a 587-acre tract of land commonly known as the "Empire Tract" which is adjacent to the Continental Arena site. The executed redevelopment agreement with the NJSEA provides that the Meadowlands Mills/Mack-Cali LP will convey the Empire Tract to the State of New Jersey for establishment of a wetlands mitigation area. The rights of Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership in the Empire Tract were contributed to the Meadowlands Mills/Mack-Cali LP and certain proceeds of the sale of the Empire Tract are to be paid to Meadowland Mills Limited Partnership to recover its investment in the Empire Tract prior to the payment of the preferences on unreturned capital contributions to Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership and Mack-Cali.
Pursuant to the Meadowlands Mills Limited Partnership agreement, we and Kan Am each are entitled to receive a cumulative construction period preference and a priority return during operations equal to 9% per year. Payment of the construction period preference to Kan Am is guaranteed by us until substantial physical completion of construction of the project and the closing of a permanent loan and the payment of the construction period preference is payable to us solely out of proceeds of the construction loan to the extent permitted by the loan documents. At specified times following the tenth anniversary of the project's opening, either we or Kan Am can exercise a buy-sell provision. Pursuant to the buy-sell provision, we can require Kan Am to sell to us for cash or limited partnership units of Mills LP, at Kan Am's election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership. Also, pursuant to the buy-sell provision, Kan Am can require us to acquire for cash or limited partnership units of Mills LP, at our election, Kan Am's entire interest in the partnership at a price based on the fair market value of the project.
Del Amo - Los Angeles, California. We are currently pursuing a plan to redevelop our Del Amo Fashion Center which will include the addition of new department store anchors, introduction of additional tenants with higher price points than the property's current tenants and the demolition of the vacant wing formerly anchored by Montgomery Ward. The vacant wing will be replaced by an open air retail and entertainment wing. In addition, we anticipate that we will sell a parcel of land at the property to a residential developer who intends to build a multifamily building on the site.
Sawgrass - Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. We are currently pursuing a redevelopment program at Sawgrass Mills to incorporate improved lighting, painting and directional signage. We are also contemplating the addition of an open-air promenade to the property.
San Francisco Piers 27-31 - San Francisco, California. In April 2001, the San Francisco Port Commission awarded us the exclusive right to negotiate for a long-term lease on Piers 27-31 on the San Francisco waterfront by which to develop a 21st Century Retail and Entertainment Center full-price mixed-use retail, office, entertainment and recreation project. These negotiations have begun and are ongoing. Concurrently, entitlements at the state and local level are proceeding.
108 North State Street - Chicago, Illinois. In June 2002, we were selected by the City of Chicago to negotiate the development of Block 37 (108 N. State Street), a key city block opposite the Marshall Fields department store in downtown Chicago, as a 21st Century Retail and Entertainment Center mixed-use project including retail, office, residential and hotel uses. Negotiations for this development are ongoing. We are in discussion with tenants for the retail portion of the project and are negotiating with an office developer to develop the office portion of the project.
In addition to the projects discussed above, we are also conducting due diligence on several other proposed sites for future projects, including sites in Cleveland, Ohio; Woodbridge, Virginia; Boston, Massachusetts; Tampa, Florida; and San Francisco, California. We are also reviewing other potential retail and entertainment development opportunities internationally. For example, we are exploring follow-on opportunities beyond Madrid Xanadú for sites in and around Seville, Bilbao, Valencia and Barcelona, Spain. In addition, we are pursuing an opportunity in Glasgow, Scotland, and in Italy, our efforts are concentrated on several well-located sites in Milan, suburban Florence and Rome.
Item 3.