ITEM 2. COMMUNITIES
AMLI owns interests in a portfolio of upscale income producing apartment communities that it has either acquired or developed. The communities are primarily oriented to residents demanding high levels of services and contain numerous resident amenities, such as business centers, fitness centers, swimming pools, tennis courts, basketball and volleyball courts, miles of jogging trails and nature walks. Most of the apartment homes have a patio, balcony or sunroom, and many offer one or more additional features such as vaulted ceilings, microwave ovens, Palladian windows, fireplaces and washers and dryers or washer/dryer connections. A number of the communities developed by AMLI have won awards for design, landscaping and architecture.
Communities that are fully completed and have, in the opinion of management, completed their initial lease-ups, are designated in AMLI's financial statements as "Rental communities." AMLI also sometimes refers to these communities as "Stabilized communities." Communities not meeting these criteria are designated in AMLI's financial statements as "Rental communities under development."
AMLI's ownership interest in its communities varies. Those that are wholly-owned ("Wholly-Owned Communities") are reflected directly in AMLI's balance sheet. Those in which AMLI has a partnership interest ("Co- investment Communities") are typically accounted for using the equity method and are reflected in Investments in partnerships in AMLI's balance sheet.
AMLI may develop a community with the intent of selling it upon completion and stabilization. If so, this "merchant building activity" would typically be conducted in a subsidiary and AMLI's interests in these communities would be reflected in Service Companies assets in AMLI's balance sheet.
The following tables provide summary information on AMLI's communities as of December 31, 2003:
STABILIZED RENTAL COMMUNITIES
Total Wholly-Owned Co-investment Communities Communities Communities --------------- -------------- -------------- Market Number Units Number Units Number Units - ------ ------ ----- ------ ----- ------ -----
Dallas/Ft. Worth, Texas . . . . . . . . . 21 7,697 14 5,243 7 2,454 Atlanta, Georgia. . . . . 16 5,949 7 2,771 9 3,178 Chicago, Illinois . . . . 8 3,243 3 1,260 5 1,983 Austin, Texas . . . . . . 6 2,797 3 1,304 3 1,493 Indianapolis, Indiana . . 6 2,428 5 2,212 1 216 Kansas City, Kansas . . . 7 2,600 4 1,528 3 1,072 Houston, Texas. . . . . . 4 1,433 1 334 3 1,099 Denver, Colorado. . . . . 3 1,260 1 328 2 932 --- ------ --- ------ --- ------ Total . . . . . . . . 71 27,407 38 14,980 33 12,427 === ====== === ====== === ======
RENTAL COMMUNITIES UNDER DEVELOPMENT
Wholly-Owned Co-investment Total Development Development Communities Communities Communities --------------- -------------- -------------- Market Number Units Number Units Number Units - ------ ------ ----- ------ ----- ------ -----
Atlanta, Georgia. . . . . 1 461 -- -- 1 461 Austin, Texas . . . . . . 1 220 -- -- 1 220 Indianapolis, Indiana . . 1 322 1 322 -- -- Chicago, Illinois . . . . 2 814 -- -- 2 814 --- ----- --- ----- --- ----- Total . . . . . . . . 5 1,817 1 322 4 1,495 === ===== === ====== === =====
STABILIZED COMMUNITIES
The following table shows AMLI's history of acquiring and developing apartment communities:
STABILIZED COMMUNITIES AT DECEMBER 31, ------------------------------------------
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Wholly-owned: Units at beginning of year . 12,792 12,515 12,191 12,247 11,722 Units acquired . . . . . . . -- 1,074 1,134 383 3,584 Units sold/contributed to co-investments . . . . . (773) (1,598) (1,078) (908) (326) Units developed (1). . . . . 496 200 -- -- -- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Total wholly-owned units at end of year . . . 12,515 12,191 12,247 11,722 14,980 ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Co-investments: Units at beginning of year . . . . . . . . . . 6,767 8,936 13,956 15,011 15,811 Units acquired/ contributed to co-investments. . . . . . . 1,026 3,034 483 938 -- Units sold . . . . . . . . . (713) (652) (488) (754) (4,382) Units developed (1). . . . . 1,856 2,638 1,060 616 998 ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Total co-investment units at end of year . . . 8,936 13,956 15,011 15,811 12,427 ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Total stabilized units. . . 21,451 26,147 27,258 27,533 27,407 ====== ====== ====== ====== ======
(1) Units are included on this line when community reaches stabilization.
RISK FACTORS
The following factors, as well as other variables might affect our operating results; therefore, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial conditions or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our securities could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our securities.
WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN OUR SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTIONS AT THEIR CURRENT LEVEL.
We base the level of our cash distributions to shareholders on numerous assumptions and projections that we make regarding our future performance, any of which may prove to be incorrect, and our own decisions to reinvest rather than distribute available cash. Our assumptions and projections relate, among other things, to:
. community occupancy;
. the amount of future capital expenditures and expenses relating to our communities;
. the level of leasing activity and future rental rates at our communities;
. the strength of the real estate market in the areas in which we own communities;
. competition in the markets in which we own communities; and
. interest rates
While we expect to maintain or increase our current level of distributions over time, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so.
WE WOULD INCUR ADVERSE TAX CONSEQUENCES IF WE FAIL TO QUALIFY AS A REIT.
If we fail to qualify as a REIT we will incur substantial additional tax liabilities. We intend to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes, but we do not intend to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that we do in fact qualify as a REIT. We have received an opinion from our legal counsel that we are organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification as a REIT beginning with our taxable year ended December 31, 1994 and that our actual and proposed method of operation that we have described to our counsel will enable us to continue to satisfy the requirements for REIT qualification. Our counsel's opinion, however, is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service and is based on our representations as to factual matters and on our counsel's review and analysis of existing law, which includes no controlling precedent.
If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, we would not be permitted to deduct the amount we distribute to shareholders from our taxable income and we would be subject to Federal income tax, including any alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate tax rates. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, our shares. Unless entitled to relief under certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, we also would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which our REIT qualification was lost. Our board of trustees is authorized to revoke our REIT election at any time in response to future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations.
WE MAY NEED TO BORROW FUNDS TO MEET OUR REIT MINIMUM DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS.
To qualify as a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our annual net taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, to our shareholders. In addition, if we fail to distribute during each calendar year at least the sum of (a) 85% of our ordinary income for such year, (b) 95% of our capital gain net income for such year, and (c) any of our undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax on the excess of the required distribution over the sum of (i) the amounts actually distributed, plus (ii) retained amounts on which corporate level tax is paid by us.
We derive our income primarily from our share of the Operating Partnership's income, and the cash available for distribution to our shareholders comes primarily from cash distributions from the Operating Partnership. We may have to borrow funds to meet the distribution of taxable income test described above and thereby avoid being required to pay the non-deductible excise tax referred to above. This is due to differences in timing between when we actually receive cash income and pay deductible expenses and when the income and expenses are included in our taxable income.
DIVIDENDS PAYABLE BY REITS DO NOT QUALIFY FOR THE REDUCED TAX RATES UNDER RECENTLY ENACTED TAX LEGISLATION.
Recently enacted tax legislation generally reduces the maximum tax rate for dividends payable by individuals to 15% through 2008. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally continue to be taxed at the normal rate applicable to the individual recipient, rather than the preferential rates applicable to other dividends. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common shares.
WE CAN CHANGE OUR FINANCING, INVESTMENT, DISTRIBUTION AND OTHER BUSINESS POLICIES WITHOUT SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL.
Our board of trustees establishes our financing, investment, distribution and other business policies based on management's recommendations and our board of trustees' evaluation of business and general economic conditions and other relevant factors. Our board of trustees may change these policies without shareholder consent.
OUR BUSINESS CONSISTS PRIMARILY OF ACQUIRING, DEVELOPING AND OPERATING REAL ESTATE AND IS THEREFORE SUBJECT TO REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT AND OPERATING RISKS.
Real property investments are subject to varying degrees of risk. Several factors may adversely affect the economic performance and value of our communities. These factors include changes in the national, regional and local economic climate, local conditions such as an oversupply of properties or a reduction in demand for our Communities, the attractiveness of our communities to residents, competition from other available property owners and changes in market rental rates. Our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from residents and to pay for adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs, including real estate taxes, which could increase over time. Also, the expenses of owning and operating a community are not necessarily reduced when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in income from the community.
Resident defaults may reduce our income and cash flow. If a significant number of residents fail to meet their lease obligations, our revenue and cash flow will decrease and we may be unable to make expected distributions to our shareholders. Defaulting residents may seek bankruptcy protection, which could result in payment delays or in the rejection and termination of the residents' leases. This would reduce our income, cash flow and amounts available to distribute to our shareholders.
THE GEOGRAPHIC CONCENTRATION OF OUR RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITIES AND FLUCTUATIONS IN LOCAL MARKETS MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITIONS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
We derived significant amounts of rental revenue for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2003 from communities concentrated in Atlanta, Georgia and Dallas, Texas. As a result of this geographic concentration, if a local community market performs poorly, the income from the communities in that market could decrease. The performance of the economy in each of these areas affects occupancy, market rental rates and expenses, and consequently impacts the income generated from the communities and their underlying values. Economic downturns in the local markets in which we own communities could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results from operations.
WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY INCREASES IN REAL ESTATE OPERATING COSTS.
If our communities do not generate revenue sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and other capital expenditures, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover our fixed costs, and our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders may be adversely affected.
Residential communities are subject to increases in operating expenses such as maintenance, insurance and administrative costs, and other general costs associated with security, landscaping, repairs and maintenance. If operating expenses increase, competition in the local rental market may limit the extent to which rents may be increased to meet increased expenses without decreasing occupancy rates.
WE ARE SUBJECT TO REAL ESTATE FINANCING RISKS.
Potential adverse effects of the costs of and possible difficulties in obtaining debt financing may adversely affect our cash flows and distributions to shareholders. As a result of, among other things, the annual income distribution requirements applicable to REITs under the Internal Revenue Code, we rely to a significant extent on borrowings to fund acquisitions, capital expenditures and other items and expect to continue to do so. We are therefore subject to real estate and general financing risks, including changes from period to period in the availability of financing, the risk that our cash flow may not cover both required debt service payments and distributions to our shareholders, and the risk that we will not be able to refinance existing indebtedness or that the refinancing terms will be unfavorable. If we do not make mortgage payments, the community or communities subject to the mortgage indebtedness could be foreclosed upon by or transferred to the lender.
RISING INTEREST RATES WILL GENERALLY INCREASE OUR BORROWING COSTS.
We have a bank credit facility that permits us to borrow up to $256 million for community acquisitions and other purposes that provides for interest at variable rates, and we may incur additional variable rate indebtedness in the future. Variable-rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect our cash flow and the amounts available to distribute to our shareholders.
WE MAY ENCOUNTER SIGNIFICANT DELAYS IN RENEWING LEASES OR RE-LETTING VACANT APARTMENT HOMES AND RESULTING LOSSES OF INCOME.
When leases of apartment homes in our communities expire, the leases may not be renewed, the related apartment home may not be re-let promptly or the terms of renewal or re-letting, may be less favorable than the terms of the expiring leases. If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or re-let the units or if the rental rates upon renewal or re-letting are significantly lower than expected rates, then our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to make distributions to shareholders would be reduced.
WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MEET OUR TARGETED LEVELS OF LEASING ACTIVITY, ACQUISITIONS AND DEVELOPMENT DUE TO THE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE NATURE OF THE RESIDENTIAL COMMUNITY MARKETS.
Numerous residential communities compete with our communities in attracting residents to lease apartment homes and additional communities can be expected to be built in the markets in which our communities are located. The number and quality of competitive communities in a particular area will have a material effect on our ability to lease apartment homes at our existing communities or at newly acquired communities and on the rents charged.
OUR ESTIMATES OF CURRENT AND FUTURE BUSINESS CONDITIONS MAY BE INACCURATE.
In formulating our annual business plans, we make estimates of turnover re-letting costs that take into consideration our views of both current and expected future business conditions in our markets. Our estimates may prove to be inaccurate. If we are unable promptly to re-let or renew the leases for all or a substantial portion of our apartment homes, if the rental rates upon the renewal or re-letting are significantly lower than expected rates or if our cost estimates prove inadequate, then our cash flow and ability to make expected distributions to shareholders may be adversely affected.
WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION COSTS OR LIABILITIES.
As an owner and operator of real properties, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations that impose liability on current and previous owners and operators of real property for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the property. Some of these laws impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances at the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is or ever was owned or operated by the person. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure to remediate the property properly, may adversely affect the owner's ability to borrow using the real property as collateral.
Environmental laws and common law principles could be used to impose liability for release into the air of, and exposure to, hazardous substances, including asbestos-containing materials, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to the released hazardous substances. As an owner of real properties, we could be liable for these types of costs.
Over the past few years, there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of properties other than us alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. Some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary damages or settlements. Insurance carriers have reacted to these liability awards by excluding mold related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements at prohibitively high rates.
We cannot be assured that any prior owner of any of our communities did not create a material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of our Communities.
WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN LAWS.
Our communities are subject to various federal, state and local regulatory requirements, including state and local fire and life-safety requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the imposition of fines by governmental authorities or awards of damages to private litigants. We believe that our communities are in material compliance with all current regulatory requirements. However, new requirements may be imposed that would require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures and that could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders.
INSURANCE COVERAGE IS BECOMING MORE EXPENSIVE AND MORE DIFFICULT TO OBTAIN.
The current insurance market is characterized by rising premium rates, increased deductibles, and more restrictive coverage language. Recent developments have resulted or are expected to result in significant increases in our insurance premiums and have made or are expected to make it more difficult to obtain certain types of insurance. Insurance policy coverage continues to narrow. Furthermore, we may not be able to purchase policies in the future with deductibles similar to those previously available to us. Continued deterioration in insurance marketplace conditions may have a negative impact on our operating results.
WE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF HAZARD LOSSES ON OUR COMMUNITIES EXCEED THE AMOUNT OF OUR INSURANCE COVERAGE OR ARE NOT COVERED BY INSURANCE.
We carry commercial general liability insurance, standard "all-risk" property insurance, flood and rental loss insurance with respect to our communities with policy terms and conditions customarily carried for similar communities. We believe that our current insurance coverage is adequate. However, our insurance is subject to normal limitations on the amounts of coverage and some types of losses may be uninsurable or may only be insurable at a cost that we believe outweighs the value of obtaining insurance. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of the amount of our insurance coverage occur, we could lose the capital invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from that community, and we would continue to be obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the community.
WE ARE SUBJECT TO LAWS BENEFITING DISABLED PERSONS, WHICH MAY RESULT IN OUR INCURRING UNANTICIPATED EXPENSES.
Our apartment communities must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA, to the extent that the apartment communities are or contain public accommodations and/or commercial facilities as defined by the ADA. The ADA does not consider apartment communities to be public accommodations or commercial facilities, except for portions of the facilities which are open to the public, such as the leasing office. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. We believe our apartment communities comply with the present requirements under the Americans with Disabilities Act and applicable state laws. However, we cannot assure you that we will not incur unanticipated expenses to comply with the ADA.
EQUITY REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS ARE RELATIVELY ILLIQUID WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.
The relative illiquidity of our real estate investments may limit our ability to adjust our community portfolio to respond to market changes. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code limits a REIT's ability to sell certain types of communities held for fewer than four years, which may affect our ability to sell communities without adversely affecting returns to common shareholders. These factors will tend to limit our ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in market or general economic or other conditions.
NEW ACQUISITIONS OR DEVELOPMENTS MAY FAIL TO PERFORM AS EXPECTED AND COMPETITION FOR ACQUISITIONS MAY RESULT IN INCREASED PRICES FOR COMMUNITIES.
We intend to continue to selectively acquire and develop new communities. Newly acquired or developed communities may fail to perform as expected. We may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired community up to standards established for its intended market position or to develop a community. Additionally, we expect that other major real estate investors and significant capital will compete with us for attractive investment opportunities or may also develop communities in markets where we focus our development efforts. This competition may increase prices for communities. We may not be in a position or have the opportunity in the future to make suitable community acquisitions on favorable terms.
WE MAY SUFFER LOSSES FROM OUR DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
We intend to grow through the selective development and construction of communities, including build-to-suit communities and speculative development, as suitable opportunities arise. The risks associated with real estate development and construction activities include the following:
. we may find it necessary to abandon development project activities after expending significant resources to determine their feasibility;
. the construction cost of a project may exceed original estimates;
. occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed community may not be sufficient to make the community profitable;
. financing may not be available on favorable terms for development of a community;
. the construction and lease-up of a community may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service and construction costs; and
. we may fail to obtain, or may experience delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations.
These risks may reduce the funds available for distribution to our shareholders. Further, the development of communities is also subject to the general risks associated with real estate investments.
PROVISIONS OF OUR DECLARATION OF TRUST AND BYLAWS, AND OUR SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN, MAY DISCOURAGE ACQUISITION PROPOSALS AND ATTEMPTS TO CHANGE OUR BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Our Declaration of Trust generally prohibits any person from owning more than 5% of our outstanding shares. To remain qualified as a real estate investment trust, or REIT, for Federal income tax purposes under the Federal Internal Revenue Code, five or fewer persons cannot own or be deemed to own more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares at any time during the last half of any taxable year, other than our first taxable year. To preserve our qualification as a REIT, our Declaration of Trust provides that, subject to specified exceptions, no person may own more than 5% in number or value of our issued and outstanding shares of beneficial interest. Our board of trustees has the power to exempt a proposed transferee from this ownership limit based on an Internal Revenue Service ruling, an opinion of counsel or other satisfactory evidence that the proposed ownership of common shares by the transferee would not result in the termination of our REIT status. If the proposed transfer would violate the ownership limit, the transfer will be void. This ownership limit may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control which could involve an offer for your shares that is above the then prevailing market price or that you may for other reasons consider to be in your best interest.
STAGGERED ELECTIONS OF TRUSTEES LENGTHEN THE TIME NEEDED TO ELECT A MAJORITY OF OUR BOARD OF TRUSTEES WHICH COULD DISCOURAGE OR PREVENT A CHANGE OF CONTROL.
Our board of trustees is divided into three classes, with only one class being elected each year. These staggered terms may lengthen to two years the time needed to change a majority of the members of our board of trustees and may thereby delay or prevent an acquisition of control of AMLI.
OUR DUTIES TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS MAY CONFLICT WITH OUR DUTIES TO THE PARTNERS OF THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP
As the general partner of the Operating Partnership, we owe fiduciary duties to the Operating Partnership's limited partners. Discharging these fiduciary duties could conflict with our shareholders' interests. Pursuant to the Operating Partnership's limited partnership agreement, the limited partners have acknowledged that we are acting both on behalf of our shareholders and, in our capacity as general partner of the Operating Partnership, on behalf of the limited partners. The limited partners have further agreed in the partnership agreement that we are under no obligation to consider the separate interests of the limited partners in deciding whether to cause the Operating Partnership to take, or to decline to take, any actions.
INCREASES IN MARKET INTEREST RATES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON SHARES.
One of the factors that influence the market price of our common shares is the annual rate of distributions that we pay on the common shares, as compared with market interest rates. An increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers of REIT shares to demand higher annual distribution rates, which could adversely affect the market price of the common shares unless we are able to increase our distributions on outstanding common shares and elect to do so.
SHARES THAT BECOME AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE SALE MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON SHARES.
Substantial sales of common shares, or the perception that substantial sales of common shares may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices of the common shares. In addition, we may acquire additional properties in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership that will be exchangeable for our common shares unless we exercise our right to purchase the units for cash instead of issuing our common shares. We are not able to assess the extent to which perceptions of possible future sales of any of the above described common shares have affected the prevailing market prices of the common shares to date or may do so from time to time in the future.
WE DEPEND ON OUR KEY PERSONNEL.
Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers, senior officers and company managers. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of several of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on us.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
The following table summarizes AMLI's development activities from its Initial Offering through December 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands):
No. of Communities Developed No. of Projected or Under Apartment Development Development Homes Cost (1) ------------- --------- ------------
Wholly-owned. . . . . . . . . 11 2,398 $ 151,900
Co-investment partnerships. . . . . . . . 28 10,109 857,800 --- ------ ---------- Total development activities. . . . . . . . . 39 12,507 $1,009,700 === ====== ==========
- --------------------
(1) The $2.7 million balance of AMLI's capital commitment at December 31, 2003 is expected to be funded during 2004.
ACQUISITION ACTIVITIES
The following table summarizes AMLI's acquisition activities from the Initial Offering through December 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands):
No. of No. of Total Communities Apartment Acquisition Acquired Homes Costs ------------ ---------- -----------
Wholly-owned. . . . . . . . . 34 10,159 $ 589,100
Co-investment partnerships (1). . . . . . 21 8,215 683,600 --- ------ ----------
Total acquisition activities. . . . . . . . . 55 18,374 $1,272,700 === ====== ==========
- -----------------
(1) Excludes three communities acquired in co-investment partnerships which become wholly-owned upon AMLI's acquisition of its partners' interests in the communities. AMLI's ownership interest in these co-investment partnerships ranges from 15% to 75%.
CO-INVESTMENT COMPENSATION
The following table summarizes the compensation that AMLI and the Service Companies have received from AMLI's co-investment activities from the Initial Offering through December 31, 2003:
AMLI CO-INVESTMENT COMPENSATION SINCE THE INITIAL OFFERING (in thousands)
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Total ------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------- Transaction fees:(1) Acquisition fees. . .$ 1,015 705 118 401 -- 2,239 Development fees. . . 7,694 1,904 1,701 2,355 1,330 14,984 Construction fees . . 7,905 3,005 1,974 1,322 320 14,526 Disposition fees. . . 806 512 234 642 567 2,761 Debt/Equity placement fees. . . 264 327 113 -- -- 704 ------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ 17,684 6,453 4,140 4,720 2,217 35,214 ------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Recurring fees and other interests:(2) Asset management fees. . . . . . . . 4,635 943 1,056 916 804 8,354 Property manage- ment fees . . . . . 9,068 4,956 6,601 6,511 6,460 33,596 Cash flow preferences . . . . 635 1,090 2,107 2,314 1,767 7,913 ------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ 14,338 6,989 9,764 9,741 9,031 49,863 ------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Value added: Promoted interest from cash flow. . . 139 137 173 726 549 1,724 Promoted interest from sale . . . . . 554 1,181 1,796 -- 375 3,906 ------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ 693 1,318 1,969 726 924 5,630 ------- ------ ------ ------ ------ ------ Total. . . . . .$32,715 14,760 15,873 15,187 12,172 90,707 ======= ====== ====== ====== ====== ======
- --------------------
(1) The transaction fees are shown net of intercompany eliminations to the extent of AMLI's percentage interest in its co-investment partnerships. The amounts shown represent the portion of the fees earned in the applicable year.
(2) Recurring fees are shown before intercompany eliminations because such fees are expensed by the co-investment partnerships, which reduce AMLI's share of income from the partnerships. AMLI owns an average 31% interest in the 37 co-investment partnerships at December 31, 2003. The amounts shown represent the portion of the fees earned in the applicable year.
DISPOSITION ACTIVITIES
The following table summarizes AMLI's disposition activities from the Initial Offering through December 31, 2003 (dollars in thousands):
No. of No. of Total Communities Apartment Sale Sold Homes Price ----------- --------- -------------
Wholly-owned. . . . . . 16 5,356 $336,488 Co-investment partnerships. . . . . 11 3,585 266,384 -- ----- -------- Total disposition activities. . . . . . 27 8,941 $602,872 == ===== ========
ITEM 3.