ITEM 2. COMMUNITIES
The Company's real estate investments as of March 1, 1999 consist primarily of apartment communities in various stages of the development cycle and land or land options held for development. Such investments can be divided into three categories:
(*) Represents an estimate
"Current Communities" are apartment communities where construction is complete and the community has either reached stabilized occupancy or is in the initial lease-up process or under redevelopment. Current Communities include the following sub-classifications:
Stabilized Communities. Represents all Current Communities that have completed initial lease-up by attaining physical occupancy levels of at least 95% or have been completed for one year, whichever
occurs earlier. For evaluation purposes, the Company regards each Stabilized Community as falling into one of three categories:
- West Coast Established Communities. Represents all Stabilized Communities owned by Bay as of January 1, 1997, with stabilized operating costs as of January 1, 1997 such that a comparison of 1997 operating results to 1998 operating results is meaningful. As of March 1, 1999, there were 22 West Coast Established Communities containing 5,702 apartment homes.
- East Coast Established Communities. Represents all Stabilized Communities owned by Avalon as of January 1, 1997 and subsequently acquired by the Company in connection with the Merger, with stabilized operating costs as of January 1, 1997 such that a comparison of 1997 operating results to 1998 operating results is meaningful. As of March 1, 1999, there were 34 East Coast Established Communities containing 10,171 apartment homes.
- Other Stabilized Communities. Represents Stabilized Communities as defined above, but which attained such classification or were acquired after January 1, 1997. As of March 1, 1999, there were 57 Other Stabilized Communities containing 16,473 apartment homes.
Lease-Up Communities. Represents all Current Communities where construction has been complete for less than one year and the communities are in the initial lease-up process. As of March 1, 1999, there was currently one Lease-Up Community containing 710 apartment homes.
Redevelopment Communities. Represents all Current Communities where substantial redevelopment has either begun or is scheduled to begin. Redevelopment is considered substantial when additional capital invested during the reconstruction effort exceeds the lesser of $5 million or 10% of the community's acquisition cost. As of March 1, 1999, there were 13 Redevelopment Communities containing 4,854 apartment homes.
"Development Communities" are communities that are under construction and may be partially complete and operating and for which a final certificate of occupancy has not been received.
"Development Rights" are development opportunities in the early phase of the development process for which the Company has an option to acquire land or owns land to develop a new community and where related pre-development costs have been incurred and capitalized in pursuit of these new developments.
The Company's holdings under each of the above categories are discussed on the following pages.
Current Communities
The Current Communities are primarily garden-style apartment communities consisting of two-and three-story buildings in landscaped settings. The Current Communities, as of March 1, 1999, include 109 garden-style, 13 high-rise and 5 mid-rise apartment communities. The Current Communities offer many attractive amenities including vaulted ceilings, lofts, fireplaces, patios/decks and modern appliances. Other features, at various communities, include swimming pools, fitness centers, tennis courts and business centers. The Company also has an extensive and ongoing maintenance program to keep all communities and apartment homes free of deferred maintenance and, where vacant, available for immediate occupancy. Management believes that excellent design and service oriented property management focused on the specific needs of residents enhances market appeal to discriminating residents and will ultimately achieve higher rental rates and occupancy levels while minimizing resident turnover and operating expenses. These Current Communities are institutional-quality multifamily apartment communities located in the following six geographic markets:
All of the Current Communities are managed and operated by the Company. During the year ended December 31, 1998, the Company completed construction of 1,770 apartment homes in four communities for a total cost of $224.8 million. The average age of the Current Communities, on a weighted average basis according to number of apartment homes, is approximately nine years.
Of the Current Communities, the Company held a fee simple ownership interest in 109 operating communities (one of which is on land subject to a 149 year land lease); a general partnership interest in four partnerships that hold a fee simple interest in four other operating communities; a general partnership interest in four partnerships structured as "DownREITs" that own 13 communities; and a 100% interest in a senior participating mortgage note secured by one community. In each of the four partnerships structured as "DownREITs", the Company is the general partner and there are one or more limited partners whose interest in the partnership is denominated in "units of limited partnership interest" ("Units"). For each DownREIT partnership, limited partners who hold Units are entitled to receive certain distributions (a "Stated Distribution") prior to any distribution that such DownREIT partnership makes to the general partner. The Stated Distributions that are paid in respect of the DownREIT Units currently approximate the dividend rate applicable to shares of Common Stock of the Company. Each DownREIT partnership has been
structured in a manner that makes it unlikely that the limited partners thereof will be entitled to any greater distribution than the Stated Distribution. Each holder of Units has the right to require the DownREIT partnership that issued a Unit to redeem that Unit at a cash price equal to the then fair market value of a share of Common Stock of the Company, except that the Company has the right to acquire any Unit so presented for redemption for one share of Common Stock. As of March 1, 1999, there were 894,144 Units outstanding. The DownREIT partnerships are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.
PROFILE OF CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER APARTMENT HOME DATA)
PROFILE OF CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER APARTMENT HOME DATA)
PROFILE OF CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER APARTMENT HOME DATA)
PROFILE OF CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER APARTMENT HOME DATA)
FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES
FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES (CONTINUED)
FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES (CONTINUED)
FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES (CONTINUED)
FEATURES AND RECREATIONAL AMENITIES - CURRENT AND DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITIES (CONTINUED)
Notes to Community Information tables on pages 9 through 20
(1) Represents the average rental revenue per occupied apartment home.
(2) Property EBITDA is defined as property earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization, extraordinary items, gain/(loss) on sale of a community, minority interest and before considering corporate general and administrative expenses and central property management overhead. Gross EBITDA discussed in Note (5) to the Selected Financial Data represents consolidated earnings (net of general and administrative expenses and central property management overhead), and including minority interests, but before depreciation and amortization. EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to operating income (as determined in accordance with GAAP) as an indicator of the Company's operating performance, or to cash flows from operating activities (as determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of liquidity. EBITDA as disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to the Company's calculation of EBITDA.
(3) Costs are presented in accordance with GAAP. For Development Communities, cost represents total costs incurred through December 31, 1998.
(4) For purposes of these tables, Current Communities include only communities for which the Company held fee simple ownership interests or held through DownREIT partnerships.
Development Communities
As of March 1, 1999, 14 Development Communities were under construction which are expected to add a total of 3,262 apartment homes to the Company's portfolio upon completion. The total capitalized cost of the Development Communities, when completed, is expected to be approximately $532.5 million. Statements regarding the future development or performance of the Development Communities are forward-looking statements. There can be no assurance that the Company will complete the Development Communities, that the Company's budgeted costs, leasing, start dates, completion dates, occupancy or estimates of "EBITDA as a % of Total Budgeted Cost" will be realized or that future developments will realize comparable returns. See the discussion under "Risks of Development and Redevelopment".
The Company holds a fee simple ownership interest in each of the Development Communities except for two communities that are owned by partnerships in which the Company holds a general partnership interest. The following is a summary of the Development Communities:
(1) Budgeted cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop the respective Development Community, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees determined in accordance with GAAP. (2) Stabilized operations is defined as the first full quarter of 95% or greater occupancy after completion of construction. (3) Projected EBITDA represents gross potential earnings projected to be achieved at completion of construction before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and extraordinary items, minus (a) projected economic vacancy and (b) projected stabilized operating expenses. EBITDA is relevant to an understanding of the economics of the Company because it indicates cash flow available from Company operations to service fixed obligations. EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to operating income, as determined in accordance with GAAP, as an indicator of the Company's operating performance, or to cash flows from operating activities (as determined in accordance with GAAP) as a measure of liquidity. EBITDA as disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to the Company's calculation of EBITDA. (4) Represents a combined yield for Avalon Valley and Avalon Lake. (5) Financed with tax-exempt bonds.
Redevelopment Communities
As of March 1, 1999, the Company had 13 Redevelopment Communities. The total budgeted cost of these Redevelopment Communities, including the cost of acquisition and redevelopment when completed, is expected to be approximately $462.5 million, of which approximately $98.1 million is the additional capital invested or expected to be invested above the original purchase cost.
Statements regarding the future redevelopment or performance of the Redevelopment Communities are forward-looking statements. The Company has found that the cost to redevelop an existing apartment community is more difficult to budget and estimate than the cost to develop a new community. Accordingly, the Company expects that actual costs may vary over a wider range than for a new development community. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the Company will not exceed budgeted costs, either individually or in the aggregate, or that projected unleveraged returns on cost will be achieved. See the discussion under "Risks of Development and Redevelopment".
The following is a summary of the Redevelopment Communities:
(1) Total budgeted cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to redevelop the respective Redevelopment Community, including costs to acquire the community, reconstruction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated redevelopment overhead and other regulatory fees determined in accordance with GAAP. (2) Restabilized operations is defined as the first full quarter of 95% or greater occupancy after completion of redevelopment. (3) Projected EBITDA represents gross potential earnings projected to be achieved at completion of redevelopment before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and extraordinary items, minus (a) projected economic vacancy and (b) projected stabilized operating expenses.
Development Rights
The Company is considering the development of 27 new apartment communities. These Development Rights range from land owned or under contract for which design and architectural planning has just commenced to land under contract or owned by the Company with completed site plans and drawings where construction can commence almost immediately. Management estimates that the successful completion of all of these communities would ultimately add 7,239 institutional-quality apartment homes to the Company's portfolio. At December 31, 1998, the cumulative capitalized costs incurred in pursuit of the 27 Development Rights, including the cost of land acquired in connection with three of the Development Rights, was approximately $41.0 million. Many of these apartment homes will offer features like those offered by the communities currently owned by the Company.
The Company generally holds Development Rights through options to acquire land, although one development right is controlled through a joint venture partnership that owns land (New Canaan, CT). The properties comprising the Development Rights are in different stages of the due diligence and regulatory approval process. The decisions as to which of the Development Rights to pursue, if any, or to continue to pursue once an investment in a Development Right is made are business judgments to be made by Management after continued financial, demographic and other analysis is performed. Finally, Management intends to limit the percentage of debt used to finance new developments. To comply with Management's self-imposed limitation on the use of debt, other financing alternatives may be required to finance the development of those Development Rights scheduled to start construction after January 1, 1999. Although the development of any particular Development Right cannot be assured, Management believes that the Development Rights, in the aggregate, present attractive potential opportunities for future development and growth of the Company's FFO.
Statements regarding the future development of the Development Rights are forward-looking statements. There can be no assurance that:
- the Company will succeed in obtaining zoning and other necessary governmental approvals or the financing required to develop these communities, or that the Company will decide to develop any particular community; or
- construction of any particular community will be undertaken or, if undertaken, will begin at the expected times assumed in the financial projections or be completed by the anticipated date and/or at the total budgeted cost assumed in the financial projections;
The 27 Development Rights the Company is currently pursuing are summarized on the following table:
(1) Company owns land, but construction has not yet begun. (2) Currently anticipated that the land seller will retain a minority limited partner interest.
Risks of Development and Redevelopment
The Company intends to continue to pursue the development and redevelopment of apartment home communities in accordance with the Company's underwriting policies. Risks associated with the Company's development and redevelopment activities may include:
- - the abandonment of opportunities explored by the Company based on further financial, demographic or other analysis or because of liquidity constraints;
- - the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations;
- - construction or reconstruction costs of a community may exceed original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other expenses, which could make completion or redevelopment of a community uneconomical;
- - occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed or redevelopment community are dependent on a number of factors, including market and general economic conditions, and may not be sufficient to make the community profitable;
- - financing may not be available on favorable terms for the development or redevelopment of a community; and construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs.
The occurrence of any of the events described above could adversely affect the Company's ability to achieve its projected yields on communities under development or redevelopment and could prevent the Company from paying distributions to its stockholders.
For each Development and Redevelopment Community, the Company establishes a target for projected EBITDA as a percentage of total budgeted cost. Projected EBITDA represents gross potential earnings projected to be achieved at completion of development or redevelopment before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and extraordinary items, minus (a) projected economic vacancy and (b) projected stabilized operating expenses. Total budgeted cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop the respective Development or Redevelopment Community, including land, acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees determined in accordance with GAAP. Gross potential earnings and construction costs reflect market conditions prevailing in the community's market at the time the Company's budgets are prepared taking into consideration certain changes to those market conditions anticipated by the Company at the time. Although the Company attempts to anticipate changes in market conditions, the Company cannot predict with certainty what those changes will be. Construction costs have been increasing and, for certain of the Company's Development Communities, the total construction costs have been or are expected to be higher than the original budget. Nonetheless, because of increases in prevailing market rents Management believes that, in the aggregate, the Company will still achieve its targeted projected EBITDA as a percentage of total budgeted cost for those communities experiencing costs in excess of the original budget. Management believes that it could experience similar increases in construction costs and market rents with respect to other development communities resulting in total construction costs that exceed original budgets. Likewise, costs to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some cases, exceeded Management's original estimates and similar increases in costs may be experienced in the future. There can be no assurances that market rents in effect at the time new development communities or repositioned communities complete lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction costs.
Capitalized Interest
In accordance with GAAP, the Company capitalizes interest expense during construction or reconstruction until each building obtains a certificate of occupancy; thereafter, interest for each completed building is expensed. Capitalized interest during the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 totaled $16,977,000, $6,985,000 and $2,567,000, respectively.
Acquisition Activities and Other Recent Developments
Acquisitions of Existing Communities. In 1998, Avalon, Bay and, following the Merger, the Company acquired an aggregate of 13 communities containing 4,166 apartment homes. These communities are summarized as follows:
On January 7, 1998, Avalon purchased Avalon at Town Centre, a 246 apartment home community, and Avalon at Town Square, a 160 apartment home community, both of which are located in the Minneapolis, Minnesota area, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $27,625,000.
On April 30, 1998, Avalon purchased Avalon at Oxford Hill, a 480 apartment home community located in St. Louis, Missouri, for approximately $29,760,000.
On May 29, 1998, Avalon purchased The Gates of Edinburgh, a 198 apartment home community located in the Minneapolis, Minnesota area, for approximately $17,950,000.
On January 14, 1998, Bay purchased Warner Oaks, a 227 apartment home community located in the Los Angeles, California area, for approximately $20,100,000.
On January 28, 1998, Bay purchased Amberway, a 272 apartment home community located in Orange County, California, and Arbor Park, a 260 apartment home community located in the Los Angeles, California area, for approximately $17,500,000 and $12,400,000, respectively.
On February 11, 1998, Bay purchased Laguna Brisas, a 176 apartment home community located in the Los Angeles, California area, for approximately $17,400,000.
On March 2, 1998, Bay purchased Cabrillo Square, a 293 apartment home community located in San Diego, California, for approximately $22,900,000.
On May 1, 1998, Bay purchased Avalon Ridge, a 421 apartment home community, located in the Seattle, Washington area, for approximately $25,100,000.
On June 16, 1998, the Company purchased The Verandas at Bear Creek, a 264 apartment home community located in the Seattle, Washington area, for approximately $34,290,000.
On July 16, 1998, the Company purchased the residential portion of the Prudential Center, a 781 apartment home community located in Boston, Massachusetts, for approximately $130,000,000.
On December 1, 1998, the Company purchased Hanover Hall, a 388 apartment home community located in the Hartford, Connecticut area, for approximately $37,500,000.
Sales of Existing Communities. During 1998, the Company completed a strategic planning effort resulting in a decision to pursue a disposition strategy for certain assets in markets that did not meet its long-term strategic direction. In connection with this disposition strategy, during 1998 the Company sold seven communities, totaling 2,039 apartment homes for a gross sales price of $126,200,000. Net proceeds from the sale of these communities totaled $73,900,000 resulting in a net gain of $3,970,000.
In connection with an agreement executed by Avalon in March 1998 which provided for the buyout of certain limited partners in DownREIT V Limited Partnership, the Company sold two communities in July 1998. Net proceeds from the sale of the two communities, containing an aggregate of 758 apartment homes, were approximately $44,000,000.
Land Acquisitions for New Developments. During February 1998, Avalon purchased a 17.1 acre site in Danbury, Connecticut for the development of 268 luxury apartment homes to be known as Avalon Valley. Avalon Valley is budgeted to cost $26,100,000. Construction on Avalon Valley commenced during the first quarter of 1998 and is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 1999.
During February 1998, Avalon purchased a 32 acre site in Danbury, Connecticut for the development of 135 luxury apartment homes to be known as Avalon Lake. Avalon Lake is budgeted to cost $17,000,000. Construction on Avalon Lake commenced during the second quarter of 1998 and is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 1999.
During March 1998, Avalon acquired a 22 acre site in Wilmington, Massachusetts for the development of 204 luxury apartment homes to be known as Avalon Oaks. Avalon Oaks is budgeted to cost $21,900,000. Construction on Avalon Oaks commenced during the second quarter of 1998 and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 1999.
During April 1998, Bay acquired a 5.05 acre site on the Alameda in downtown San Jose, California on which it plans to build, subject to certain governmental approvals, an
apartment home community with up to 278 apartment homes and approximately 8,500 square feet of retail space. This future development community is budgeted to cost $52,900,000.
Seismic Concerns
Many of the Company's West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. In July 1998, the Company obtained a seismic risk analysis from an engineering firm which estimated the probable maximum damage ("PMD") for each of the 60 West Coast communities that the Company owned at that time and for each of the five West Coast communities under development at that time, individually and for all of those communities combined. To establish a PMD, the engineers first define a severe earthquake event for the applicable geographic area, which is an earthquake that has only a 10% likelihood of occurring over a 50-year period. The PMD is determined as the structural and architectural damage and business interruption loss that has a 10% probability of being exceeded in the event of such an earthquake. Because a significant number of the Company's communities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, the engineers' analysis defined an earthquake on the Hayward Fault with a Richter Scale magnitude of 7.1 as a severe earthquake with a 10% probability of occurring within a 50-year period. The engineers then established an aggregate PMD at that time of $113 million for the 60 West Coast communities that the Company owned at that time and the five West Coast communities under development. The $113 million PMD for those communities was a PMD level that the engineers expected to be exceeded only 10% of the time in the event of such a severe earthquake. The actual aggregate PMD could be higher or lower as a result of variations in soil classifications and structural vulnerabilities. For each community, the engineers' analysis calculated an individual PMD as a percentage of the community's replacement cost and projected revenues. No assurance can be given that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than the PMD assessments indicate, that future PMD levels will not be higher than the current PMD levels described above for the Company's communities located on the West Coast, or that future acquisitions or developments will not have PMD assessments indicating the possibility of greater damage or losses than currently indicated.
In August 1998, the Company renewed its earthquake insurance, both for physical damage and lost revenue, with respect to all communities it owned at that time and all of the communities under development. For any single occurrence, the Company has in place $75,000,000 of coverage, with a 5 percent deductible not to exceed $25,000,000 and not less than $100,000, above this amount. In addition, the Company's general liability and property casualty insurance provides coverage for personal liability and fire damage. In the event an uninsured disaster or a loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, the Company could lose its capital invested in the affected community, as well as anticipated future revenue from that community, and would continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the community. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect the business of the Company and its financial condition and results of operations.
Americans with Disabilities Act
The apartment communities owned by the Company and any newly acquired apartment communities must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (the "ADA") to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" and/or "commercial facilities" as defined by the ADA. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of structural barriers to handicapped access in certain public areas of the Company's properties where such removal is readily achievable. The ADA does not, however, consider residential properties, such as apartment communities, to be public accommodations or commercial facilities, except to the extent portions of such facilities, such as leasing offices, are open to the public. The Company believes its properties comply in all material respects with all present requirements under the ADA and applicable state laws. Noncompliance could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants.
ITEM 3.