ITEM 2. COMMUNITIES
Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities, communities in various stages of development (“Development Communities”) and Development Rights (as defined below). Our current operating communities are further classified as Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities, Redevelopment Communities and Unconsolidated Communities. While we generally establish the classification of communities on an annual basis, we intend to update the classification of communities during the calendar year to the extent that our plans with regard to the disposition or redevelopment of a community change during the year. The following is a description of each category:
Current Communities are categorized as Established, Other Stabilized, Lease-Up, Redevelopment or Unconsolidated according to the following attributes:
•Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities) for the year ended December 31, 2020 are consolidated communities in the markets where we have a significant presence (New England, New York/New Jersey, Mid-Atlantic, Pacific Northwest, Northern and Southern California and our expansion markets of Southeast Florida and Denver, Colorado), and where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy, as defined below, as of the beginning of the respective prior year. The Established Communities for the year ended December 31, 2020 are communities that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes, had stabilized occupancy as of January 1, 2019, are not conducting or are not probable to conduct substantial redevelopment activities, and are not held for sale or probable for disposition to unrelated third parties within the fiscal year. A community is considered to have stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment of 90% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.
•Other Stabilized Communities are all other completed consolidated communities that have stabilized occupancy, as defined above, as of January 1, 2020, or which were acquired during the years ended December 31, 2020 or 2019. Other Stabilized Communities for the year ended December 31, 2020 excludes communities that are conducting or are probable to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the fiscal year.
•Lease-Up Communities are consolidated communities where construction has been complete for less than one year and that do not have stabilized occupancy.
•Redevelopment Communities are consolidated communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is probable to begin during the fiscal year. Redevelopment is considered substantial when (i) capital invested during the reconstruction effort is expected to exceed the lesser of $5,000,000 or 10% of the community's pre-redevelopment gross cost basis and (ii) physical occupancy is below or is expected to be below 90% during, or as a result of, the redevelopment activity.
•Unconsolidated Communities are communities that we have an indirect ownership interest in through our investment interest in an unconsolidated joint venture.
Development Communities are consolidated communities that are under construction and for which a certificate or certificates of occupancy for the entire community have not been received. These communities may be partially complete and operating.
Unconsolidated Development Communities are communities that are under construction and for which a certificate or certificates of occupancy for the entire community have not been received that we have an indirect ownership interest in through our investment interest in an unconsolidated joint venture. These communities may be partially complete and operating.
Development Rights are development opportunities in the early phase of the development process where we either have an option to acquire land or enter into a leasehold interest, where we are the buyer under a long-term conditional contract to purchase land, where we control the land through a ground lease or own land to develop a new community, or where we are the designated developer in a public-private partnership. We capitalize related pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new developments for which we currently believe future development is probable.
We currently lease our corporate headquarters located in Arlington, Virginia, as well as our other regional and administrative offices under operating leases.
As of December 31, 2020, communities that we owned or held a direct or indirect interest in were classified as follows:
Our holdings under each of the above categories are discussed on the following pages.
We generally establish the composition of our Established Communities portfolio annually. Changes in the Established Communities portfolios for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows:
_________________________________
(1) We remove a community from our Established Communities portfolio if we believe that planned activity for the upcoming year will result in that community's expected operations not being comparable to the prior year, including when we intend either (i) to undertake a significant capital renovation, such that the community will be classified as a Redevelopment Community; (ii) to dispose of a community; or (iii) when a significant casualty loss occurs.
(2) Includes the five wholly-owned communities contributed to the NYC Joint Venture.
(3) Community was moved from the Established Communities portfolio to the Other Stabilized portfolio as a result of a casualty loss that occurred during the year and impacted operations.
Current Communities
Our Current Communities include garden-style apartment communities consisting of multi-story buildings of stacked flats and/or townhome apartments in landscaped settings, as well as mid and high rise apartment communities consisting of larger elevator-served buildings of four or more stories, frequently with structured parking. As of January 31, 2021, our Current Communities consisted of the following:
As discussed in Item 1. “Business,” we operate under three core brands: Avalon, AVA and eaves by Avalon. We believe that this branding differentiation allows us to target our product offerings to multiple customer groups and submarkets within our existing geographic footprint. Our core “Avalon” brand focuses on upscale apartment living and high end amenities and services. “AVA” targets customers in high energy, transit-served urban neighborhoods and generally feature smaller apartments, many of which are designed for roommate living with an emphasis on modern design and a technology focus. “eaves by Avalon” is targeted to the cost conscious, “value” segment in suburban areas. In 2020, we introduced our "Kanso" brand through one of our current Development Communities. The Kanso brand is designed to create an apartment living experience that offers simplicity without sacrifice at a more moderate price point - featuring high-quality apartment homes, limited-to-no community amenities and supported by a low-touch, largely self-service operating model that leverages technology and smart access. We believe that these brands allow us to further penetrate our existing markets by appealing to different consumer preferences.
We also have an extensive and ongoing maintenance program to continually maintain and enhance our communities and apartment homes. The aesthetic appeal of our communities, and a service-oriented property management team that is focused on the specific needs of residents, enhances market appeal. We believe our mission of Creating a Better Way To Live helps us achieve higher rental rates and occupancy levels while minimizing resident turnover and operating expenses.
Our Current Communities are located in the following geographic markets:
We manage and operate substantially all of our Current Communities. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed construction of eight communities containing 2,095 apartment homes and sold 10 operating communities containing 1,887 apartment homes. The average age of our Current Communities, on a weighted average basis according to number of apartment homes, is 19.9 years. When adjusted to reflect redevelopment activity, as if redevelopment were a new construction completion date, the weighted average age of our Current Communities is 11.1 years.
Of the Current Communities, as of January 31, 2021, we owned (directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries):
•258 operating communities, including 248 with a full fee simple, or absolute, ownership interest and 10 that are on land subject to a land lease. The land leases have various expiration dates from May 2041 to March 2142, and four of the land leases are used to support tax advantaged structures that ultimately allow us to purchase the land upon lease expiration.
•A general partnership interest and an indirect limited partnership interest in Archstone Multifamily Partners AC LP (the “U.S. Fund”) and Multifamily Partners AC JV LP (the “AC JV”), subsidiaries of which own three and two operating communities, respectively.
•A membership interest in four limited liability companies. One of the ventures, the NYC Joint Venture, through subsidiaries owns a fee simple interest in three operating communities and a leasehold interest in two additional operating communities. The other three ventures that each hold a fee simple interest in an operating community, one of which is consolidated for financial reporting purposes.
•A general partnership interest in one partnership structured as a “DownREIT,” which is consolidated and owns one community. In this partnership, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner. Limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution before any distribution is made to the general partner. The distributions per unit paid to the holders of units of limited partnership interests are equal to our current common stock dividend amount. The limited partnership interests have the right to present all or some of their units for redemption for a cash amount based on the fair value of our common stock. In lieu of a cash redemption by the partnership, we may elect to acquire any unit presented for redemption for one share of our common stock. At January 31, 2021, there were 7,500 DownREIT partnership units outstanding.
In addition to our Current Communities, we also hold, directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries, a full fee simple ownership interest in our wholly-owned Development Communities, a membership interest in two limited liability companies that each hold an interest in an Unconsolidated Development Community, and a wholly-owned mixed-use project with for-sale condominiums.
Development Communities
As of December 31, 2020, we owned or held a direct interest in 16 Development Communities. We expect these Development Communities, when completed, to add a total of 5,128 apartment homes and 62,000 square feet of commercial space to our portfolio for a total capitalized cost, including land acquisition costs, of approximately $1,951,000,000. We cannot assure you that we will meet our schedule for construction completion or that we will meet our budgeted costs, either individually, or in the aggregate. You should carefully review Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks associated with development activity and our discussion under Item 7. “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (including the factors identified under “Forward-Looking Statements”) for further discussion of development activity.
The following table presents a summary of the Development Communities.
_________________________________
(1)Projected total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to develop the respective Development Community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, as well as costs incurred for first generation commercial tenants such as tenant improvements and leasing commissions.
(2)Initial projected occupancy dates are estimates.
(3)Stabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 90% or greater physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development.
(4)Development Communities containing at least 10,000 square feet of commercial space include AVA Hollywood (19,000 square feet) and Avalon Harrison (27,000 square feet).
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company completed the development of the following communities:
____________________________________
(1)Total capitalized cost is as of December 31, 2020. We generally anticipate incurring additional costs associated with these communities that are customary for new developments.
Unconsolidated Development Communities
As of December 31, 2020, we had an indirect interest in the following Unconsolidated Development Communities.
_____________________________
(1)Projected total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop the respective Unconsolidated Development Community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees and other regulatory fees, as well as costs incurred for first generation commercial tenants such as tenant improvements and leasing commissions. Projected total capitalized cost is the total projected joint venture amount.
(2)Initial projected occupancy dates are estimates.
(3)AVA Arts District is expected to contain 56,000 square feet of commercial space.
Development Rights
At December 31, 2020, we had $110,142,000 in acquisition and related capitalized costs for direct interests in five land parcels we own. In addition, we own the land for four development Rights that are additional development phases of existing stabilized operating communities we own and which will be constructed on land currently adjacent to or directly associated with those operating communities. In addition, we had $55,427,000 in capitalized costs (including legal fees, design fees and related overhead costs) related to 15 Development Rights for which we control the land parcel, typically through a conditional agreement or option to purchase or lease the land. Collectively, the land held for development and associated costs for deferred development rights relate to 24 Development Rights for which we expect to develop new apartment communities in the future. The Development Rights range from those beginning design and architectural planning to those that have completed site plans and drawings and can begin construction almost immediately. We estimate that the successful completion of all of these
communities would ultimately add approximately 7,853 apartment homes to our portfolio. Substantially all of these apartment homes will offer features like those offered by the communities we currently own.
The properties comprising the Development Rights are in different stages of the due diligence and regulatory approval process. The decisions as to which of the Development Rights to invest in, if any, or to continue to pursue once an investment in a Development Right is made, are business judgments that we make after we perform financial, demographic and other analyses. In the event that we do not proceed with a Development Right, we generally would not recover any of the capitalized costs incurred in the pursuit of those communities, unless we were to recover amounts in connection with the sale of land; however, we cannot guarantee a recovery. Pre-development costs incurred in the pursuit of Development Rights, for which future development is not yet considered probable, are expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, making future development no longer probable, any unrecoverable capitalized pre-development costs are charged to expense. During 2020, we incurred a charge of $12,399,000 for expensed transaction, development and other pursuit costs, net of recoveries, which include development pursuits that were not yet probable of future development at the time incurred, or for pursuits that we determined were no longer probable of being developed. This charge includes the write-off of $7,264,000 related to a Development Right in New York City, with a projected total capitalized cost of $688,000,000, that we no longer expect is probable.
You should carefully review Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” for a discussion of the risks associated with Development Rights.
Land Acquisitions
We select land for development and follow established procedures that we believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. During 2020, we acquired the following land parcels for an aggregate investment of $114,395,000.
____________________________________
(1)Projected total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred to date (if any) and projected to be incurred to develop the respective community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including land and related acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, as well as costs incurred for first generation commercial tenants such as tenant improvements and leasing commissions, net of projected proceeds for any planned sales of associated outparcels and other real estate.
(2)Construction on this land parcel commenced during 2020.
(3)Land purchased for the expected development of two adjacent operating communities.
Disposition Activity
We sell assets when they do not meet our long-term investment strategy or when real estate markets allow us to realize a portion of the value created over our periods of ownership, and we generally redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and acquire communities. Pending such redeployment, we will generally use the proceeds from the sale of these communities to reduce amounts outstanding under our Credit Facility or retain the cash proceeds on our balance sheet until it is redeployed into acquisition, development or redevelopment activity. On occasion, we will set aside the proceeds from the sale of communities into a cash escrow account to facilitate a tax-deferred, like-kind exchange transaction. From January 1, 2020 to January 31, 2021, we sold our interest in ten wholly-owned operating communities, containing 2,055 apartment homes, with an aggregate gross sales price of $699,750,000.
Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses
We maintain commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to all of our communities, with insurance policies issued by a combination of third party insurers as well as a wholly-owned captive insurance company. These policies, along with other insurance policies we maintain, have policy specifications, insured and self-insured limits, exclusions and deductibles that we consider commercially reasonable. We utilize a wholly-owned captive insurance company to insure certain types and amounts of risks, which include property damage and resulting business interruption losses, general liability insurance and other construction related liability risks. The captive is utilized to insure other limited levels of risk, which may be in part reinsured by third party insurance. There are, however, certain types of losses (including, but not limited to, losses arising from nuclear liability, pandemic or acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically impractical. You should carefully review the discussion under Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of risks associated with an uninsured property or casualty loss.
Our communities are insured for certain property damage and business interruption losses through a combination of community specific insurance policies and/or a master property insurance program which covers the majority of our communities. This master property program provides a $400,000,000 limit for any single occurrence, subject to certain sub-limits and exclusions. Under the master property program, we are subject to various deductibles per occurrence, as well as additional self-insured retentions. In addition to our potential liability for the various policy self-insured retentions and deductibles, our captive insurance company is directly responsible for 100% of the first $25,000,000 of losses (per occurrence) and 10% of the second $25,000,000 of losses (per occurrence) incurred by the master property insurance policy. Our master property insurance program includes coverage for losses resulting from wildfires and windstorm. Limits, deductibles, self-insured retentions, and coverages are consistent with customary market programs and may increase or decrease annually during the insurance renewal process, which occurs on different dates throughout the calendar year.
Many of our West Coast communities are located within the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. Many of our communities are near, and thus susceptible to, the major fault lines in California, including the San Andreas Fault, the Hayward Fault or other geological faults that are known or unknown. We cannot assure you that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than our current insured levels. We procure property damage and resulting business interruption insurance coverage with a loss limit of $175,000,000 for any single occurrence and in the annual aggregate for losses resulting from earthquakes. However, for any losses resulting from earthquakes at communities located in California or Washington, the loss limit is $200,000,000 for any single occurrence and in the annual aggregate.
Our communities are insured for third-party liability losses through a combination of community specific insurance policies and/or coverage provided under a master commercial general liability and umbrella/excess insurance program. The master commercial general liability and umbrella/excess insurance policies cover the majority of our communities and are subject to certain coverage limitations and exclusions. Our captive insurance company is directly responsible for covered liability claims arising out of our primary commercial general liability policy, subject to a $2,000,000 per occurrence loss limit.
We also maintain certain casualty policies (general liability, umbrella/excess and workers compensation) for construction related risks which have various exclusions and deductibles that, in management’s view, are commercially reasonable.
Just as with office buildings, transportation systems and government buildings, there have been reports that apartment communities could become targets of terrorism. Our communities are insured for terrorism related losses through the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (“TRIPRA”) program. This coverage extends to most of our casualty exposures (subject to deductibles and insured limits) and certain property insurance policies. We have also purchased private-market insurance for property damage due to terrorism with limits of $600,000,000 per occurrence and in the annual aggregate that includes certain coverages (not covered under TRIPRA) such as domestic-based terrorism. This insurance, often referred to as “non-certified” terrorism insurance, is subject to deductibles, limits, and exclusions.
An additional consideration for insurance coverage and potential uninsured losses is mold growth or other environmental contamination. Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. If a significant mold problem arises at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities. For further discussion of the risks and our related prevention and remediation activities, please refer to the discussion under Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors - We may incur costs due to environmental contamination or non-compliance” elsewhere in this report. We cannot provide assurance that we will have coverage under our existing policies for property damage or liability to third parties arising as a result of exposure to mold or a claim of exposure to mold at one of our communities.
We also maintain a crime policy (also commonly referred to as a fidelity policy or employee dishonesty policy) that applies to losses from employee theft of money, securities or property and a cyber liability insurance policy that applies to losses from breaches of data privacy. These policies are subject to maximum loss limits and include coverage limitations or exclusion that may preclude a full insurance recovery of losses related to employee theft or breaches of data privacy.
The amount or types of insurance we maintain may not be sufficient to cover all losses and we may change our policy limits, coverages, and self-insured retentions at any time.
ITEM 3.