ITEM 2. COMMUNITIES
Our real estate investments consist primarily of current operating apartment communities, communities in various stages of development (“Development Communities”) and Development Rights as defined below. Our current operating communities are further distinguished as Established Communities, Other Stabilized Communities, Lease-Up Communities and Redevelopment Communities. The following is a description of each category:
Current Communities are categorized as Established, Other Stabilized, Lease-Up, or Redevelopment according to the following attributes:
• Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities) are communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of the beginning of the prior year. We determine which of our communities fall into the Established Communities category as of January 1st of each year and maintain that classification throughout the year, unless disposition plans regarding a community change. For the year 2004, the Established Communities were communities that had stabilized occupancy and operating expenses as of January 1, 2003 and were not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities, as described below, and were not held for sale or planned for disposition in 2004. We consider a community to have stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.
• Other Stabilized Communities includes all other completed communities that have stabilized occupancy, as defined above. Other Stabilized Communities do not include communities that are conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year.
• Lease-Up Communities are communities where construction has been complete for less than one year and where physical occupancy has not reached 95%.
• Redevelopment Communities are communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to begin during the current year. Redevelopment is considered substantial when capital invested during the reconstruction effort exceeds the lesser of $5,000,000 or 10% of the community’s acquisition cost.
Development Communities are communities that are under construction and for which a final certificate of occupancy has not been received. These communities may be partially complete and operating.
Development Rights are development opportunities in the early phase of the development process for which we either have an option to acquire land or enter into a leasehold interest, for which we are the buyer under a long-term conditional contract to purchase land or where we own land to develop a new community. We capitalize related pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of new developments for which we currently believe future development is probable.
In addition, we own an aggregate of approximately 77,000 square feet of office space in Alexandria, Virginia and New Canaan, Connecticut, for our corporate office and a regional office, with all other regional and administrative offices leased under operating leases.
As of December 31, 2004, our communities were classified as follows:
Our holdings under each of the above categories are discussed on the following pages.
Current Communities
Our Current Communities are primarily garden-style apartment communities consisting of two and three-story buildings in landscaped settings. The Current Communities, as of February 28, 2005, include 105 garden-style (of which 12 are mixed communities and include townhomes), 19 high-rise and 14 mid-rise apartment communities. The Current Communities offer many attractive amenities including some or all of the following:
Other features at various communities may include:
We also have an extensive and ongoing maintenance program to keep all communities and apartment homes substantially free of deferred maintenance and, where vacant, available for immediate occupancy. We believe that the aesthetic appeal of our communities and a service oriented property management team, focused on the specific needs of residents, enhances market appeal to discriminating residents. We believe this will ultimately achieve higher rental rates and occupancy levels while minimizing resident turnover and operating expenses.
Our Current Communities are located in the following geographic markets:
We manage and operate all of our Current Communities. During the year ended December 31, 2004, we completed construction of 2,135 apartment homes in seven communities, acquired 1,165 apartment homes in five communities and sold 1,360 apartment homes in five communities. In addition, we received payment in full for our interest in a senior participating mortgage loan secured by a 302 apartment home community. The average age of our Current Communities, on a weighted average basis according to number of apartment homes, is 8.5 years.
Of the Current Communities, as of February 28, 2005, we own:
• a fee simple, or absolute, ownership interest in 116 operating communities, four of which are on land subject to land leases expiring in January 2062, April 2095, May 2099 and March 2142;
• a general partnership interest in three partnerships that each own a fee simple interest in an operating community;
• a general partnership interest in five partnerships structured as “DownREITs,” as described more fully below, that own an aggregate of 15 communities; and
• a membership interest in four limited liability companies that each hold a fee simple interest in an operating community, two of which are on land subject to land leases with one lease expiring in July 2029 and one lease expiring in November 2089.
We also hold a fee simple ownership interest in nine of the Development Communities, two of which will be subject to joint venture ownership structures upon construction completion, in addition to a membership interest in a limited liability company that owns one Development Community subject to a land lease which expires in December 2026.
In each of our five partnerships structured as DownREITs, either AvalonBay or one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more limited partners whose interest in the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. For each DownREIT partnership, limited partners are entitled to receive an initial distribution before any distribution is made to the general partner. Although the partnership agreements for each of the DownREITs are different, generally the distributions per unit paid to the holders of units of limited partnership interests have approximated our current common stock dividend amount. Each DownREIT partnership has been structured so that it is unlikely the limited partners will be entitled to a distribution greater than the initial distribution provided for in the applicable partnership agreement. The holders of units of limited partnership interest have the right to present all or some of their units for redemption for a cash amount as determined by the applicable partnership agreement and based on the fair value of our common stock. In lieu of a cash redemption by the partnership, we may elect to acquire any unit presented for redemption for one share of our common stock or for such cash amount. As of February 28, 2005, there were 494,071 DownREIT partnership units outstanding. The DownREIT partnerships are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.
Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)
(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)
Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)
(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)
Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)
(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)
Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)
(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)
Profile of Current, Development and Unconsolidated Communities (1)
(Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)
(1)
We own a fee simple interest in the communities listed, excepted as noted below.
(2)
Represents community which was under redevelopment during the year, resulting in lower average economic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.
(3)
Represents community that completed development or was purchased during the year, which could result in lower average economic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.
(4)
Represents the average rental revenue per occupied apartment home.
(5)
Costs are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For current Development Communities, cost represents total costs incurred through December 31, 2004. Financial reporting costs are excluded for unconsolidated communities, see Note 6, “Investments in Unconsolidated Entities.”
(6)
We own a general partnership interest in a partnership that owns a fee simple interest in this community.
(7)
We own a general partnership interest in a partnership structured as a DownREIT that owns this community.
(8)
We own a membership interest in a limited liability company that holds a fee simple interest in this community.
(9)
Community is located on land subject to a land lease.
(10)
This community is in development and is being financed under a joint venture structure with third-party financing, in which the community is owned by a limited liability company managed by one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
(1) For the purpose of this table, Current Communities excludes communities held by unconsolidated real estate joint ventures.
Development Communities
As of December 31, 2004, we had ten Development Communities under construction. We expect these Development Communities, when completed, to add a total of 2,668 apartment homes to our portfolio for a total capitalized cost, including land acquisition costs, of approximately $546,700,000. Statements regarding the future development or performance of the Development Communities are forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that:
• we will complete the Development Communities;
• our budgeted costs or estimates of occupancy rates will be realized;
• our schedule of leasing start dates, construction completion dates or stabilization dates will be achieved; or
• future developments will realize returns comparable to our past developments.
You should carefully review the discussion under “Risks of Development and Redevelopment” included elsewhere in this Item 2.
The following table presents a summary of the Development Communities. We hold a direct or indirect fee simple ownership interest in these communities except where noted.
(1) Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to develop the respective Development Community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees. Total capitalized cost for communities identified as having joint venture ownership, either during construction or upon construction completion, represents the total projected joint venture contribution amount.
(2) Future initial occupancy dates are estimates.
(3) Stabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% or greater physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development.
(4) This community is being financed under a joint venture structure with third-party financing, in which the community is owned by a limited liability company managed by one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. The total capitalized cost for this community includes costs associated with the construction of 89,000 square feet of retail space and 30,000 square feet for a community facility. Our portion of the total capitalized cost of this joint venture is projected to be $30,300,000 including community-based tax-exempt debt.
(5) This community is currently owned by one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, will be financed, in part or in whole, by a construction loan, and is subject to a joint venture agreement that allows for a 70% joint venture partner to be admitted upon construction completion.
(6) This community is being developed by one of our wholly-owned, taxable REIT subsidiaries, and is subject to a venture agreement that provides for the transfer of 100% of the ownership interests to the joint venture upon construction completion.
Redevelopment Communities
As of December 31, 2004, we had four communities under redevelopment. We expect the total capitalized cost to complete these communities, including the cost of acquisition, capital expenditures subsequent to acquisition and redevelopment, to be approximately $229,300,000, of which approximately $40,300,000 is the additional capital invested or expected to be invested during redevelopment and $189,000,000 was incurred prior to redevelopment. Statements regarding the future redevelopment or performance of the Redevelopment Communities are forward-looking statements. We have found that the cost to redevelop an existing apartment community is more difficult to budget and estimate than the cost to develop a new community. Accordingly, we expect that actual costs may vary from our budget by a wider range than for a new development community. We cannot assure you that we will meet our schedule for reconstruction completion or restabilized operations, or that we will meet our budgeted costs, either individually or in the aggregate. See the discussion under “Risks of Development and Redevelopment” included elsewhere in this report.
The following presents a summary of these Redevelopment Communities:
(1) Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to redevelop the respective Redevelopment Community, including costs to acquire the community, reconstruction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated redevelopment overhead and other regulatory fees determined in accordance with GAAP.
(2) Restabilized operations is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% or greater physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of redevelopment.
(3) This community was acquired in 2004 and is currently owned by one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. However, we expect to reduce our ownership in this community upon closing of the discretionary investment fund.
Development Rights
As of December 31, 2004, we are evaluating the future development of 49 new apartment communities on land that is either owned by us, under contract, subject to a leasehold interest or for which we hold a purchase option. We generally hold Development Rights through options to acquire land, although for fifteen of the Development Rights we currently own the land on which a community would be built if we proceeded with development. The Development Rights range from those beginning design and architectural planning to those that have completed site plans and drawings and can begin construction almost immediately. We estimate that the successful completion of all of these communities would ultimately add 13,491 apartment homes to our portfolio. Substantially all of these apartment homes will offer features like those offered by the communities we currently own. At December 31, 2004, there were cumulative capitalized costs (including legal fees, design fees and related overhead costs, but excluding land costs) of $37,007,000 relating to Development Rights that we consider probable for future development. In addition, land costs related to the pursuit of Development Rights (consisting of original land and additional carrying costs) of $166,751,000 are reflected as land held for development on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2004.
The properties comprising the Development Rights are in different stages of the due diligence and regulatory approval process. The decisions as to which of the Development Rights to invest in, if any, or to continue to pursue once an investment in a Development Right is made, are business judgments that we make after we perform financial, demographic and other analyses. In the event that we do not proceed with a Development Right, we generally would not recover capitalized costs incurred in the pursuit of those communities, unless we were to recover amounts in connection with the sale of land; however, we cannot guarantee a recovery. Pre-development costs incurred in the pursuit of Development Rights for which future development is not yet considered probable are expensed as incurred. In addition, if the status of a Development Right changes, deeming future development no longer probable, any capitalized pre-development costs are written-off with a charge to expense.
Although the development of any particular Development Right cannot be assured, we believe that the Development Rights, in the aggregate, present attractive potential opportunities for future development and growth of long-term stockholder value.
Statements regarding the future development of the Development Rights are forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that:
• we will succeed in obtaining zoning and other necessary governmental approvals or the financing required to develop these communities, or that we will decide to develop any particular community; or
• if we undertake construction of any particular community, that we will complete construction at the total capitalized cost assumed in the financial projections in the following table.
The table on the following page presents a summary of the 49 Development Rights we are currently pursuing.
(1) Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs incurred to date (if any) and projected to be incurred to develop the respective community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees.
(2) We own the land parcel, but construction has not yet begun.
(3) Represents improved land encumbered with debt. The improved land consists of occupied office buildings and industrial space. NOI from incidental operations from the current improvements will be recorded as a reduction in cost basis as described in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report.
(4) In December 2004, we entered into a joint venture agreement with an unrelated third-party for the development of Avalon at Mission Bay North II. We hold a 25% equity interest in this joint venture and we anticipate that approximately 80% of the total capitalized cost will be financed through a construction loan. This community, if developed, will be located on land subject to a ground lease which expires in December 2103.
Risks of Development and Redevelopment
We intend to continue to pursue the development and redevelopment of apartment home communities. Our development and redevelopment activities may be exposed to the following:
• we may abandon opportunities we have already begun to explore based on further review of, or changes in, financial, demographic, environmental or other factors;
• we may encounter liquidity constraints, including the unavailability of financing on favorable terms for the development or redevelopment of a community;
• we may be unable to obtain, or we may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations;
• we may incur construction or reconstruction costs for a community that exceed our original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other expenses, which could make completion of development or redevelopment of the community uneconomical;
• occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed development or redevelopment community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including competition and market and general economic conditions, and may not be sufficient to make the community profitable; and
• we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs.
The occurrence of any of the events described above could adversely affect results of operations and our payment of distributions to our stockholders.
Construction costs are projected by us based on market conditions prevailing in the community’s market at the time our budgets are prepared and reflect changes to those market conditions that we anticipated at that time. Although we attempt to anticipate changes in market conditions, we cannot predict those changes with certainty. Construction costs have been increasing, particularly for materials such as steel, concrete and lumber, and, for some of our Development Communities and Development Rights, the total construction costs may be higher than the original budget. We do not expect that these price increases will materially affect our current Development Communities. However, these increases may materially affect Development Rights where construction has not yet begun. Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop the respective Development or Redevelopment Community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including:
• land and/or property acquisition costs;
• construction or reconstruction costs;
• real estate taxes;
• capitalized interest;
• loan fees;
• permits;
• professional fees;
• allocated development or redevelopment overhead; and
• other regulatory fees.
Costs to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some cases, exceeded our original estimates and similar increases in costs may be experienced in the future. We cannot assure you that market rents in effect at the time new development communities or redevelopment communities complete lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction or reconstruction costs.
Recent Developments
Sales of Existing Communities. We seek to increase our geographical concentration in selected high barrier-to-entry markets where we believe we can:
• apply sufficient market and management presence to enhance revenue growth;
• reduce operating expenses; and
• leverage management talent.
To achieve this increased concentration, we (i) sell assets that do not meet our long-term investment strategy or when capital and real estate markets allow us to realize a portion of the value created over the past business cycle and (ii) redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop, redevelop and acquire communities. Pending such redeployment, we will generally use the proceeds from the sale of these communities to reduce amounts outstanding under our variable rate unsecured credit facility. On occasion, we will set aside the proceeds from the sale of communities into a cash escrow account to facilitate a nontaxable, like-kind exchange transaction. We sold five communities, containing a total of 1,360 apartment homes, during the period from January 1, 2004 through February 28, 2005. Net proceeds from the sale of these assets were $210,001,000.
Land Acquisitions. We carefully select land for development and follow established procedures that we believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. During 2004, we acquired ten land parcels for an aggregate purchase price of $122,775,000. The land parcels purchased, which are currently held for future development, are as follows:
(1) Total capitalized cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to develop the respective Development Community, determined in accordance with GAAP, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees.
(2) Future construction start dates are estimates. There can be no assurance that we will pursue to completion any or all of these proposed developments.
(3) Represents improved land encumbered with debt. The improved land consists of occupied office buildings and industrial space.
(4) Represents land acquired for the second phase of Avalon Chrystie Place, as discussed in Development Communities, elsewhere in this report.
Insurance and Risk of Uninsured Losses
We carry commercial general liability insurance and property insurance with respect to all of our communities. These policies, and other insurance policies we carry, have policy specifications, insured limits and deductibles that we consider commercially reasonable. There are, however, certain types of losses (such as losses arising from acts of war) that are not insured, in full or in part, because they are either uninsurable or the cost of insurance makes it, in management’s view, economically impractical. If an uninsured property loss or a property loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could lose our capital invested in a community, as well as the anticipated future revenues from such community. We would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the community. If an uninsured liability to a third-party were to occur, we would incur the cost of defense and settlement with, or court ordered damages to, that third-party. A significant uninsured property or liability loss could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Many of our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. A large concentration of our communities lie near, and thus are susceptible to, the major fault lines in California, including the San Andreas fault and the Hayward fault. We cannot assure you that an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than insured levels. In June 2004, we renewed our earthquake insurance. We have in place with respect to communities located in California, for any single occurrence and in the aggregate, $75,000,000 of coverage with a deductible per building equal to five percent of the insured value of that building. The five percent deductible is subject to a minimum of $100,000 per occurrence. Earthquake coverage outside of California is subject to a $200,000,000 limit, except with respect to the state of Washington, for which the limit is $65,000,000. Our earthquake insurance outside of California provides for a $100,000 deductible per occurrence. In addition, up to a policy aggregate of $3,000,000, the next $400,000 of loss per occurrence outside California will be treated as an additional deductible.
Our annual general liability policy and workman’s compensation coverage was renewed on August 1, 2004 and the insurance coverage provided for in these renewal policies did not materially change from the preceding year. Including the costs we estimate that we may incur as a result of deductibles, we expect the cost related to these insurance categories for the policy period from August 1, 2004 to July 31, 2005 to remain flat as compared to the prior period.
Our property insurance policy was scheduled to renew on December 1, 2005; however, in an effort to capitalize on declining insurance rates we elected to extend the first $15,000,000 layer of the policy by five months, thereby changing the renewal date for this layer to May 1, 2006. The remaining layers are currently scheduled to renew on December 1, 2005. We are currently in negotiations with all carriers to align the renewal dates. Based on this policy extension, we have seen a decline in insurance premiums for property coverage, which combined with the cost we may incur as a result of deductibles, we expect will result in declining overall insurance costs as compared to prior periods.
Just as with office buildings, transportation systems and government buildings, there have been reports that apartment communities could become targets of terrorism. In November 2002, Congress passed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (“TRIA”) which is designed to make terrorism insurance available. In connection with this legislation, we have purchased insurance for property damage due to terrorism up to $200,000,000. Additionally, we have purchased insurance for certain terrorist acts, not covered under TRIA, such as domestic-based terrorism. This insurance, often referred to as “non-certified” terrorism insurance, is subject to deductibles, limits and exclusions. Our general liability policy provides TRIA coverage (subject to deductibles and insured limits) for liability to third parties that result from terrorist acts at our communities.
Mold growth may occur when excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Although the occurrence of mold at multifamily and other structures, and the need to remediate such mold, is not a new phenomenon, there has been increased awareness in recent years that certain molds may in some instances lead to adverse health effects, including allergic or other reactions. To help limit mold growth, we educate residents about the importance of adequate ventilation and request or require that they notify us when they see mold or excessive moisture. We have established procedures for promptly addressing and remediating mold or excessive moisture from apartment homes when we become aware of its presence regardless of whether we or the resident believe a health risk is present. However, we cannot assure that mold or excessive moisture will be detected and remediated in a timely manner. If a significant mold problem arises at one of our communities, we could be required to undertake a costly remediation
program to contain or remove the mold from the affected community and could be exposed to other liabilities. We cannot assure that we will have coverage under our existing policies for property damage or liability to third parties arising as a result of exposure to mold or a claim of exposure to mold at one of our communities.
We may elect to purchase insurance separate from our corporate or portfolio insurance policies for certain communities. Common insurance policies purchased are builder’s risk policies and owner controlled insurance policies (“OCIP”) that cover workers compensation and general liability risks for us and our enrolled contractors.
In March 2005, we will renew our directors and officers (“D&O”) insurance. We have met with several carriers in anticipation of this renewal. New carriers have entered the insurance market, increasing competition, and the capital capacity of existing carriers has expanded, resulting in a partial reversal of the significant premium increases experienced in recent years. However, the number and severity of recent and pending D&O claims may result in premium increases for this renewal.
Americans with Disabilities Act
The apartment communities we own and any apartment communities that we acquire must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act to the extent that such properties are “public accommodations” and/or “commercial facilities” as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act requirements could require removal of structural barriers to handicapped access in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. The Americans with Disabilities Act does not, however, consider residential properties, such as apartment communities, to be public accommodations or commercial facilities, except to the extent portions of such facilities, such as leasing offices, are open to the public. We believe our properties comply in all material respects with all present requirements under the Americans with Disabilities Act and applicable state laws. Noncompliance could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants.
ITEM 3.