ITEM 2. COMMUNITIES
Our real estate investments consist of current operating apartment communities, communities in various stages of development, and land or land options held for development. The following is a description of each category:
Current Communities are categorized as Established, Other Stabilized, Lease-Up, or Redevelopment according to the following:
o Established Communities (also known as Same Store Communities) are communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had stabilized operating costs as of the beginning of the prior year. We determine which of our communities fall into the Established Communities category annually on January 1 of each year and maintain that classification throughout the year. For the year 2000, the Established Communities were communities that had stabilized operating costs as of January 1, 1999. o Other Stabilized Communities are all other completed communities that have stabilized occupancy and are not undergoing or planning redevelopment activities. We consider a community to have stabilized occupancy at the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment. For the year 2000, Other Stabilized Communities therefore include communities that were either acquired or achieved stabilization after January 1, 1999 and that were not undergoing or planning redevelopment activities. o Lease-Up Communities are communities where construction has been complete for less than one year and where occupancy has not reached 95%. o Redevelopment Communities are communities where substantial redevelopment is in progress or is planned to take place during the current year. Redevelopment is considered substantial when capital invested during the reconstruction effort exceeds the lesser of $5 million or 10% of the community's acquisition cost.
Development Communities are communities that are under construction and for which a final certificate of occupancy has not been received. These communities may be partially complete and operating.
Development Rights are development opportunities in the early phase of the development process for which we have an option to acquire land, for which we are the buyer under a long-term conditional contract to purchase land or where we own land to develop a new community. We capitalize all related pre-development costs incurred in pursuit of these new developments.
As of December 31, 2000, our communities were classified as follows:
Number of Number of communities apartment homes ----------- --------------- Current Communities
Established Communities: Northern California 24 6,275 Southern California 8 1,855 Mid-Atlantic 17 4,835 Northeast 18 4,773 Midwest 6 1,591 Pacific Northwest 1 264 ------ ------- Total Estabilshed 74 19,593
Other Stabilized Communities: Northern California 9 2,840 Southern California 8 2,920 Mid-Atlantic 3 1,075 Northeast 17 5,101 Midwest 3 1,033 Pacific Northwest 8 2,374 ------ ------- Total Other Stabilized 48 15,343
Lease-Up Communities -- --
Redevelopment Communities 4 2,211 ------ ------- Total Current Communities 126 37,147 ====== ======= Development Communities 12 3,484 ====== ======= Development Rights 33 9,091 ====== =======
Our holdings under each of the above categories are discussed on the following pages.
Current Communities
The Current Communities are primarily garden-style apartment communities consisting of two and three-story buildings in landscaped settings. The Current Communities, as of March 1, 2001, include 103 garden-style, 15 high-rise and eight mid-rise apartment communities. The Current Communities offer many attractive amenities including some or all of the following:
o vaulted ceilings; o lofts; o fireplaces; o patios/decks; and o modern appliances.
Other features at various communities may include:
o swimming pools; o fitness centers; o tennis courts; and o business centers.
We also have an extensive and ongoing maintenance program to keep all communities and apartment homes substantially free of deferred maintenance and, where vacant, available for immediate occupancy. We believe that the aesthetic appeal of our communities and a service oriented property management team focused on the specific needs of residents enhances market appeal to discriminating residents. We believe this will ultimately achieve higher rental rates and occupancy levels while minimizing resident turnover and operating expenses. These Current Communities are located in the following geographic markets:
We manage and operate all of the Current Communities. During the year ended December 31, 2000, we completed construction of 1,209 apartment homes in six communities for a total cost of $175.2 million. The average age of the Current Communities, on a weighted average basis according to number of apartment homes, is 6.7 years.
Of the Current Communities, as of March 1, 2001, we own:
o a fee simple, or absolute, ownership interest in 104 operating communities, one of which is on land subject to a 149 year land lease; o a general partnership interest in four partnerships that each own a fee simple interest in an operating community; o a general partnership interest in four partnerships structured as "DownREITs," as described more fully below, that own an aggregate of 16 communities; o a 100% interest in a senior participating mortgage note secured by one community, which allows us to share in part of the rental income or resale proceeds of the community; and o a membership interest in a limited liability company that holds a fee simple interest in one Redevelopment community.
We also hold a fee simple ownership interest in eleven of the Development Communities and a membership interest in a limited liability company that holds a fee simple interest in one Development Community.
In each of the four partnerships structured as DownREITs, either we or one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries is the general partner, and there are one or more limited partners whose interest in the partnership is represented by units of limited partnership interest. For each DownREIT partnership, limited partners are entitled to receive distributions before any distribution is made to the general partner. Although the partnership agreements for each of the DownREITs are different, generally the distributions paid to the holders of units of limited partnership interests approximate the current AvalonBay common stock dividend amount. Each DownREIT partnership has been structured so that it is unlikely the limited partners will be entitled to a distribution greater than the initial distribution provided for in the partnership agreement. The holders of units of limited partnership interest have the right to present each unit of limited partnership interest for redemption for cash equal to the fair market value of a share of our common stock on the date of redemption. In lieu of cash, we may elect to acquire any unit presented for redemption for one share of our common stock. As of December 31, 2000, there were 671,226 units outstanding. The DownREIT partnerships are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.
Profile of Current and Development Communities (Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)
Profile of Current and Development Communities (Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)
Profile of Current and Development Communities (Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)
Profile of Current and Development Communities (Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)
(1) For the purpose of this table, Current Communities include only comunities for which we held fee simple ownership interests or which we held through DownREIT partnerships.
(2) Represents community which was under redevelopment durring the year, resulting in lower average ecconomic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.
(3) Represents community that completed development or was purchased durring the year, which could result in lower average ecconomic occupancy and average rental rate per square foot for the year.
(4) Represents the average rental revenue per occupied apartment home.
(5) Costs are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting preinciples. For current Development Communities, cost represents total costs incurred through December 31, 2000.
Profile of Current and Development Communities (Dollars in thousands, except per apartment home data)
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
(continued)
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
(continued)
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
(continued)
Features and Recreational Amenities - Current and Development Communities
(continued)
Development Communities
As of March 1, 2001, we had twelve Development Communities under construction. We expect these Development Communities, when completed, to add a total of 3,484 apartment homes to our portfolio for a total capitalized cost, including land acquisition costs, of approximately $660.8 million. Statements regarding the future development or performance of the Development Communities are forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that:
o we will complete the Development Communities; o our budgeted costs or estimates of occupancy rates will be realized; o our schedule of leasing start dates or construction completion dates will be achieved; or o future developments will realize returns comparable to our past developments.
You should carefully review the discussion under "Risks of Development and Redevelopment" below.
We hold a fee simple ownership interest in 11 of the Development Communities and a membership interest in a limited liability company that holds a fee simple interest in one Development Community. The following table presents a summary of the Development Communities:
(1) Total budgeted cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop the respective Development Community, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. (2) Future initial occupancy dates are estimates. (3) Stabilized operations are defined as the first full quarter of 95% or greater occupancy after completion of construction. (4) This community will be developed under a joint venture structure and the joint venture entity (a limited liability company) has obtained third-party debt financing. Our equity funding of the total budgeted costs is expected to be $13.3 million.
Redevelopment Communities
As of March 1, 2001, we had four communities under redevelopment. We expect the total budgeted cost to complete these Redevelopment Communities, including the cost of acquisition and redevelopment, to be approximately $324.6 million, of which approximately $73.5 million is the additional capital invested or expected to be invested above the original purchase cost. Statements regarding the future redevelopment or performance of the Redevelopment Communities are forward-looking statements. We have found that the cost to redevelop an existing apartment community is more difficult to budget and estimate than the cost to develop a new community. Accordingly, we expect that actual costs may vary from our budget by a wider range than for a new development community. We cannot assure you that we will meet our schedules for reconstruction completion, or that we will meet our budgeted costs, either individually or in the aggregate. See the discussion under "Risks of Development and Redevelopment" below.
The following presents a summary of Redevelopment Communities:
(1) Total budgeted cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to redevelop the respective Redevelopment Community, including costs to acquire the community, reconstruction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated redevelopment overhead and other regulatory fees determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. (2) Reconstruction completion dates are estimates. (3) Restabilized operations are defined as the first full quarter of 95% or greater occupancy after completion of reconstruction. (4) This community will be developed under a joint venture structure and the joint venture entity (a limited liability company) has obtained third-party debt financing on a non-recourse basis. Our equity funding of the total budgeted costs is expected to be $9.6 million.
Development Rights
As of March 1, 2001, we are considering the development of 33 new apartment communities on land that is either owned by us or under contract, or for which we hold a purchase option. These Development Rights range from those beginning design and architectural planning to those that have completed site plans and drawings and can begin construction almost immediately. We estimate that the successful completion of all of these communities would ultimately add 9,091 upscale apartment homes to our portfolio. At December 31, 2000, the cumulative capitalized costs incurred in pursuit of the 33 Development Rights was approximately $68.9 million, of which $33.2 was the cost of land acquired in connection with six of the Development Rights. Substantially all of these apartment homes will offer features like those offered by the communities we currently own.
We generally hold Development Rights through options to acquire land, although one Development Right located in New Canaan, Connecticut is controlled through a joint venture partnership that owns the land. The properties comprising the Development Rights are in different stages of the due diligence and regulatory approval process. The decisions as to which of the Development Rights to pursue, if any, or to continue to pursue once an investment in a Development Right is made, are business judgments that we make after we perform financial, demographic and other analysis. Finally, we currently intend to limit the percentage of debt used to finance new developments in
order to maintain our general historical practice with respect to the proportion of debt in our capital structure. Therefore, other financing alternatives may be required to finance the development of those Development Rights scheduled to start construction after January 1, 2001. Although the development of any particular Development Right cannot be assured, we believe that the Development Rights, in the aggregate, present attractive potential opportunities for future development and growth of our long-term stockholder value.
Statements regarding the future development of the Development Rights are forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that:
o we will succeed in obtaining zoning and other necessary governmental approvals or the financing required to develop these communities, or that we will decide to develop any particular community; or o if we undertake construction of any particular community, that we will complete construction at the total budgeted cost assumed in the financial projections below.
The following presents a summary of the 33 Development Rights we are currently pursuing:
(1) Land is owned, but construction has not yet begun. (2) The land currently is owned by a limited partnership in which we are a majority partner. It is currently anticipated that the land seller will retain a minority limited partner interest.
Risks of Development and Redevelopment
We intend to continue to pursue the development and redevelopment of apartment home communities. Our development and redevelopment activities may be exposed to the following:
o we may abandon opportunities we have already begun to explore based on further review of, or changes in, financial, demographic, environmental or other factors; o we may encounter liquidity constraints, including the unavailability of financing on favorable terms for the development or redevelopment of a community; o we may be unable to obtain, or we may experience delays in obtaining, all necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy, and other required governmental permits and authorizations;
o we may incur construction or reconstruction costs for a community that exceed our original estimates due to increased materials, labor or other expenses, which could make completion or redevelopment of the community uneconomical; o occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed or redevelopment community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and general economic conditions, and may not be sufficient to make the community profitable; and o we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and construction costs.
The occurrence of any of the events described above could adversely affect our ability to achieve our projected yields on communities under development or redevelopment and could affect our payment of distributions to our stockholders.
Construction costs are projected by us based on market conditions prevailing in the community's market at the time our budgets are prepared and reflect changes to those market conditions that we anticipated at that time. Although we attempt to anticipate changes in market conditions, we cannot predict with certainty what those changes will be. Construction costs have been increasing and, for some of our Development Communities, the total construction costs have been or are expected to be higher than the original budget. Total budgeted cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop the respective Development or Redevelopment Community, including:
o land and/or property acquisition costs; o construction or reconstruction costs; o real estate taxes; o capitalized interest; o loan fees; o permits; o professional fees; o allocated development or redevelopment overhead; and o other regulatory fees determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
We believe that, in the aggregate, we will still achieve our targeted projected yield (i.e., return on invested capital) for those communities experiencing costs in excess of the original budget because of increases in prevailing market rents. We believe that we could experience similar increases in construction costs and market rents with respect to other development communities resulting in total construction costs that exceed original budgets. Likewise, costs to redevelop communities that have been acquired have, in some cases, exceeded our original estimates and similar increases in costs may be experienced in the future. We cannot assure you that market rents in effect at the time new development communities or redeveloped communities complete lease-up will be sufficient to fully offset the effects of any increased construction or reconstruction costs.
Capitalized Interest
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize interest expense during construction or reconstruction until an apartment home obtains a certificate of occupancy. Thereafter, the interest allocated to that completed apartment home within the community is expensed. Capitalized interest during the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 totaled $18,328,000 and $21,888,000, respectively.
Acquisition Activities and Other Recent Developments
Acquisitions of Existing Communities. We have acquired seven communities containing 1,960 apartment homes since January 1, 2000 for an acquisition price of approximately $252,400,000. Six of the communities were acquired pursuant to a forward purchase contract agreed to in 1997 with an unaffiliated party.
Sales of Existing Communities. We seek to increase our geographical concentration in selected high barrier-to-entry markets where we believe we can:
o apply sufficient market and management presence to enhance revenue growth; o reduce operating expenses; and o leverage management talent.
To achieve this increased concentration, we are selling assets in certain submarkets and intend to redeploy the proceeds from those sales to develop and redevelop communities currently under construction or reconstruction. Pending such redeployment, we will generally use the proceeds from the sale of these communities to reduce amounts outstanding under our variable rate unsecured credit facility. On occasion, we will set aside the proceeds from the sale of communities into a cash escrow account to facilitate a nontaxable like-kind exchange transaction. Accordingly, we sold nine communities, totaling 2,158 apartment homes, since January 1, 2000. Net proceeds from the sales of these assets totaled $138,924,000.
Land Acquisitions and Leases for New Developments. We carefully select land for development and follow established procedures that we believe minimize both the cost and the risks of development. During 2000, we acquired the following land parcels for future development:
(1) Total budgeted cost includes all capitalized costs projected to be incurred to develop the respective Development Community, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. (2) Future construction start and completion dates are estimates. (3) Community will be developed on land being leased from an unrelated third party.
Natural Disasters
Many of our West Coast communities are located in the general vicinity of active earthquake faults. In July 1998, we obtained a seismic risk analysis from an engineering firm which estimated the probable maximum loss (PML) for each of the 63 West Coast communities that we owned at that time and for each of the four West Coast communities under development at that time. To establish a PML, the engineers define a severe earthquake event for the applicable geographic area. The PML is the building damage and business interruption loss that is estimated to have only a 10% probability of being exceeded in a fifty year period in the event of such an earthquake. Because a significant number of our communities are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, the engineers' analysis assumed an earthquake on the Hayward Fault with a Richter Scale magnitude of 7.1. Based on this earthquake scenario, the engineers determined the PML at that time to be $113 million for the 60 West Coast communities that we owned at that time and the five West Coast communities then under development. The actual aggregate PML could be higher or lower as a result of variations in soil classifications and structural vulnerabilities. For each community, the engineers' analysis calculated an individual PML as a percentage of the community's replacement cost and projected revenues. We cannot assure you that:
o an earthquake would not cause damage or losses greater than the PML assessments indicate; o future PML levels will not be higher than the current PML levels described above for our communities located on the West Coast; or o acquisitions or developments after July 1998 will not have PML assessments indicating the possibility of greater damage or losses than currently indicated.
In November 2000, we renewed our earthquake insurance, both for physical damage and lost revenue, with respect to all communities we owned at that time and all of the communities then under development. For any single occurrence, we have in place with respect to communities located in California $75 million of coverage with a five percent deductible. The five percent deductible is subject to a minimum of $100,000 per occurrence. Earthquake coverage outside of California is subject to a $200 million limit and a $25,000 deductible per occurrence. In addition, our general liability and property insurance program provides coverage for public liability and fire damage. In the event an uninsured disaster or a loss in excess of insured limits were to occur, we could lose our capital invested in the affected community, as well as anticipated future revenue from that community. We would also continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the community. Any such loss could materially and adversely affect our business and our financial condition and results of operations.
In February 2001, an earthquake occurred in the Pacific Northwest. We believe that no material damage occurred at any of our properties but we are continuing to finalize our evaluation. Any damage that was sustained would be covered by the insurance described above, subject to a $25,000 deductible.
Americans with Disabilities Act
The apartment communities we own and any apartment communities that we acquire must comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act to the extent that such properties are "public accommodations" and/or "commercial facilities" as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act requirements could require removal of structural barriers to handicapped access in certain public areas of our properties where such removal is readily achievable. The Americans with Disabilities Act does not, however, consider residential properties, such as apartment communities, to be public accommodations or commercial facilities, except to the extent portions of such facilities, such as leasing offices, are open to the public. We believe our properties comply in all material respects with all present requirements under the Americans with Disabilities Act and applicable state laws. Noncompliance could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants.
ITEM 3.