Item 2. Properties.
The continued operation of power generation facilities and steam fields involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. To date, the Company's power generation facilities have operated at an average availability of 97%, and although from time to time the Company's power generation facilities and steam fields have experienced certain equipment breakdowns or failures, such breakdowns or failures have not had a material adverse effect on the operation of such facilities or on the Company's results of operations. Although the Company's facilities contain certain redundancies and back-up mechanisms, there can be no assurance that any such breakdown or failure would not prevent the affected facility or steam field from performing under applicable power and/or steam sales agreements. In addition, although insurance is maintained to protect against certain of these operating risks, the proceeds of such insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenue or increased expenses, and, as a result, the entity owning such power generation facility or steam field may be unable to service principal and interest payments under its financing obligations and may operate at a loss. A default under such a financing obligation could result in the Company losing its interest in such power generation facility or steam field.
Insurance coverage for each power generation facility includes commercial general liability, workers' compensation, employer's liability and property damage coverage which generally contains business interruption insurance covering debt service and continuing expenses for a period ranging from 12 to 18 months.
The Company believes that each of the currently operating power generation facilities in which the Company has an interest is exempt from financial and rate regulation as a public utility under federal and state laws. See "Governmental Regulation."
The table below sets forth certain information regarding the Company's power generation facilities and steam fields currently in operation.
POWER GENERATION FACILITIES
STEAM FIELDS
- --------------- (1) Nameplate capacity may not represent the actual output for a facility at any particular time.
(2) See "Power Generation Facilities -- Sumas Power Plant" for a description of the Company's interest in the Sumas partnership and current sales of power by the Sumas Power Plant.
(3) Capacity is expected to gradually diminish as the production of the related steam fields declines. See "Steam Fields."
(4) Other than for the Cerro Prieto Steam Fields, the steam sales agreements remain in effect so long as steam is produced in commercial quantities. There can be no assurance that the estimated life shown accurately predicts actual productive capacity of the steam fields. See "Steam Fields."
(5) See "Steam Fields -- Cerro Prieto Steam Fields" for a description of the Company's interest in and current sales of steam by the Cerro Prieto Steam Fields.
(6) Represents the actual termination of the steam sales agreement. See "Steam Fields -- Cerro Prieto Steam Fields."
Power Generation Facilities
Sumas Power Plant
The Sumas cogeneration facility (the "Sumas Power Plant") is a 125 megawatt natural gas-fired, combined cycle cogeneration facility located in Sumas, Washington, near the Canadian border. In 1991, the Company and Sumas Energy, Inc. ("SEI") formed Sumas Cogeneration Company, L.P. ("Sumas") for the purpose of developing, constructing, owning and operating the Sumas Power Plant. The Company is the sole limited partner in Sumas and SEI is the general partner. The Company currently holds a 50% interest in Sumas and SEI holds the other 50% interest. At the time the Company receives a 24.5% pre-tax rate of return on its partnership investment in Sumas, the Company's interest will be reduced to 11.33% and SEI's interest will increase to 88.67%. Further, the Company receives an additional 25% of the cash flow of the Sumas Power Plant to repay principal and interest on $11.5 million of loans to the sole shareholder of SEI. A $1.5 million loan bears interest at 20% and matures in 2003 and a $10.0 million loan bears interest at 16.25% and matures in 2004. The Sumas Power Plant commenced commercial operation in April 1993.
The Company managed the engineering, procurement and construction of the power plant and related facilities of the Sumas Power Plant, including the gas pipeline. The Sumas Power Plant was constructed by a Washington joint venture formed by Industrial Power Corporation and Haskell Corporation. The Sumas Power Plant is comprised of an MS 7001EA combined cycle gas turbine manufactured by General Electric Company ("General Electric"), a Vogt heat recovery steam generator, a General Electric steam turbine and a 3.5 mile gas pipeline. Since start-up in April 1993, the Sumas Power Plant has operated at an average availability of approximately 97%.
The Sumas Power Plant's $135.0 million construction and gas reserves acquisition cost was financed through $120.0 million of construction and term loan financing provided to Sumas and ENCO Gas, Ltd. ("ENCO"), a wholly owned Canadian subsidiary of Sumas, by The Prudential Insurance Company of America ("Prudential") and Credit Suisse. The credit facilities originally included term loans of $70.0 million at a combined fixed interest rate of 10.28% per annum and variable rate loans of $50.0 million currently based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR"), which are amortized over a 15-year period ending in 2008.
Electrical energy generated by the Sumas Power Plant is sold to Puget Sound Power & Light Company ("Puget") under the terms of a 20-year power sales agreement terminating in 2013. Under the power sales agreement, Puget has agreed to purchase an annual average of 123 megawatts of electrical energy.
The power sales agreement provides for the sale of electrical energy at a total price equal to the sum of (i) a fixed price component and (ii) a variable price component multiplied by an escalation factor for the year in which the energy is delivered. The schedule of annual fixed average energy prices (expressed in cents per kilowatt hour) in effect through 2013 under the Sumas power sales agreement is as follows:
The variable price component is set according to a scheduled rate set forth in the agreement, which in 1996 was 0.99c per kilowatt hour, and escalates annually by a factor equal to the U.S. Gross National Product Implicit Price Deflator. For 1996, the average price paid by Puget under the power sales agreement was 4.166c per kilowatt hour. Pursuant to the power sales agreement, Puget may displace the production of the Sumas Power Plant when the cost of Puget's replacement power is less than the Sumas Power Plant's incremental power generation costs. Thirty-five percent of the savings to Puget under this displacement provision are
shared with the Sumas Power Plant. In 1996, the Sumas Power Plant's net profit increased by $501,000 as a result of the displacement provision.
In addition to the sale of electricity to Puget, pursuant to a long-term steam supply and dry kiln lease agreement, the Sumas Power Plant produces and sells approximately 23,000 pounds per hour of low pressure steam to an adjacent lumber-drying facility owned by Sumas, which has been leased to and is operated by Socco, Inc. ("Socco"), an SEI affiliate. It is necessary to continue to operate the dry kiln facility in order to maintain the Sumas Power Plant's qualified facility ("QF") status. See "Government Regulation."
In connection with the development of the Sumas Power Plant, Canadian natural gas reserves located primarily in northeastern British Columbia, Canada were acquired by Sumas through its wholly owned subsidiary, ENCO. The gas reserves owned by ENCO totaled 130 billion cubic feet as of January 1, 1997. Firm transportation is contracted for on the Westcoast Energy Inc. pipeline. Gas is delivered to Huntington, British Columbia, where it is transferred into Sumas' own pipeline for transportation to the plant. ENCO is currently supplying approximately 12,900 million British thermal units per day ("mmbtu/day") to the Sumas Power Plant. The remaining 12,100 mmbtu/day requirement is being supplied under a one year contract with West Coast Gas Services, Inc.
The Company operates and maintains the Sumas Power Plant under an operating and maintenance agreement pursuant to which the Company is reimbursed for certain costs and is entitled to a fixed annual fee and an incentive payment based on project performance. This agreement has an initial term of ten years expiring in April 2003 and provides for extensions.
The Sumas Power Plant is located on 13.5 acres located in Sumas, Washington, which are leased from the Port of Bellingham under the terms of a 23.5-year lease expiring in 2014, subject to renewal. The lease provides for rental payments according to a fixed schedule.
During 1996, the Sumas Power Plant generated approximately 1,032,000,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy and approximately $44.0 million of total revenue. In 1996, the Company recognized income of approximately $6.4 million in accordance with the terms of the Sumas partnership agreement, and recorded revenue of $2.0 million for services performed under the operating and maintenance agreement.
King City Power Plant
The King City cogeneration power plant (the "King City Power Plant") is a 120 megawatt natural gas-fired, combined-cycle facility located in King City, California. In April 1996, the Company entered into a long-term operating lease for this facility with BAF Energy ("BAF"). Under the terms of the operating lease, the Company makes semi-annual lease payments to BAF, a portion of which is supported by a collateral fund owned by the Company. The collateral consists of a portfolio of investment grade and U.S. Treasury Securities that mature serially in amounts equal to a portion of the lease payments.
The power plant consists of a General Electric Frame 7 Model EA combustion turbine generator, a Nooter/Eriksen heat recovery steam generator, an ASEA Brown Boveri ("ABB") steam turbine generator and two Nebraska Boiler auxiliary boilers. The King City Power Plant commenced commercial operation in 1989 and has operated at an average availability of approximately 99%.
Electricity generated by the King City Power Plant is sold to Pacific Gas and Electric Company ("PG&E") under a 30-year power sales agreement terminating in 2019. The power sales agreement contains payment provisions for capacity and energy. The power sales agreement provides for a firm capacity payment of $184 per kilowatt year for 111 megawatts for the term of the agreement so long as the King City Power Plant delivers 80% of the firm capacity during designated periods of the year. Additional capacity payments are received for as-delivered capacity in excess of 111 megawatts delivered during peak and partial peak hours. As-delivered capacity prices are $188 per kilowatt year for 1997 and 1998. Thereafter, the payment for as-delivered capacity will be the greater of $188 per kilowatt year or PG&E's then current as-delivered capacity rate. Through 1998, payments for electrical energy produced are based on 100% of PG&E's avoided cost of energy for the period of January 1 through April 30, and 80% at avoided cost and 20% at fixed prices for the period of May 1 through December 31. The fixed average energy price in effect for 1997 and 1998 under the
King City power sales agreement is 13.14c per kilowatt hour. Thereafter, PG&E is required to pay for electrical energy actually delivered at prices equal to PG&E's then avoided cost of energy (as determined by the California Public Utilities Commission ("CPUC")). PG&E's avoided cost of energy varies from month to month and has ranged from an annual average of 1.84c to 2.96c per kilowatt hour since 1992. During 1996, PG&E's avoided cost of energy averaged approximately 2.26c per kilowatt hour.
Through April 28, 1999, the power sales agreement allows for dispatchable operation which gives PG&E the right to curtail the number of hours per year that the King City Power Plant operates. PG&E has an option to extend its curtailment rights for two additional one-year terms. If PG&E exercises the curtailment extension option, it will be required to pay an additional $0.7c per kilowatt hour for all energy delivered from the King City Power Plant.
In addition to the sale of electricity to PG&E, the King City Power Plant produces and sells thermal energy to a thermal host, Basic Vegetable Products, Inc. ("BVP"), an affiliate of BAF, under a long-term contract coterminous with the power sales agreement. It is necessary to continue to operate the host facility in order to maintain the King City Power Plant's QF status. See "Government Regulation." The BVP facility was built in 1957 and processes between 30% and 40% of the dehydrated onion and garlic production in the United States.
Natural gas for the King City Power Plant is supplied pursuant to a contract with Chevron U.S.A. Inc. ("Chevron"), expiring June 30, 1997. Natural gas is transported under a firm transportation agreement, expiring June 30, 1997, via a dedicated 38-mile pipeline owned and operated by PG&E.
Fee title to the premises is owned by Basic American, Inc., which has leased the premises to an affiliate of BAF for a term equivalent to the term of the power sales agreement for the King City Power Plant. The Company is subleasing the premises, together with certain easements, from such affiliate of BAF pursuant to a ground sublease for approximately 15 acres.
During 1996, the King City Power Plant generated approximately 411,977,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy and approximately $41.5 million of total revenue.
Gilroy Power Plant
On August 29, 1996, the Company acquired the Gilroy cogeneration facility (the "Gilroy Power Plant"), a 120 megawatt gas-fired facility located in Gilroy, California. The Company purchased the Gilroy Power Plant for $125.0 million plus certain contingent consideration, which the Company currently estimates will be approximately $24.1 million.
The acquisition of the Gilroy Power Plant was originally financed utilizing a non-recourse project loan in the aggregate amount of $116.0 million. Such loan consists of a 15-year tranche in the amount of $81.0 million and an 18-year tranche in the amount of $35.0 million and bears interest at fixed and floating rates (see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
The power plant consists of a General Electric Frame 7 Model EA combustion turbine generator, an AEG-KANIS (ABB) steam turbine, a Henry Vogt heat recovery steam generator, two auxiliary boilers and an inlet chiller using a Henry Vogt ice machine. The Gilroy Power Plant commenced commercial operation in March 1988. Since its acquisition by the Company in August 1996, the power plant has operated at an average availability of 94%.
Electricity generated by the Gilroy Power Plant is sold to PG&E under an original 30-year power sales agreement terminating in 2018. The power sales agreement contains payment provisions for capacity and energy. The power sales agreement provides for a firm capacity payment of $172 per kilowatt year for 120 megawatts for the term of the agreement so long as the Gilroy Power Plant delivers 80% of the firm capacity during designated periods of the year. Additional capacity payments are received for as-delivered capacity in excess of 120 megawatts delivered at $188 per kilowatt year for 1997. Thereafter, the payment for as-delivered capacity will be the greater of $188 per kilowatt year or PG&E's then current as-delivered capacity rate. In addition, the power sales agreement provides for payments for electrical energy actually delivered during the
period of dispatchable operation at a price equal to PG&E's avoided cost of energy excluding adders. Thereafter, during the period of baseload operation, PG&E is required to pay for electrical energy actually delivered at prices equal to PG&E's then avoided cost of energy. PG&E's avoided cost of energy has varied from month to month and has ranged from an annual average of 1.84c to 2.96c per kilowatt hour since 1992. During 1996, PG&E's avoided cost of energy averaged approximately 2.26c per kilowatt hour.
Through December 31, 1998, the power sales agreement allows for dispatchable operation which gives PG&E the right to curtail the number of hours per year that the Gilroy Power Plant operates.
In addition to the sale of electricity to PG&E, the Gilroy Power Plant produces and sells thermal energy to a thermal host, Gilroy Foods, Inc. ("Gilroy Foods"), under a long-term contract that is coterminous with the power sales agreement. Gilroy Foods is a recognized leader in the production of dehydrated onions and garlic. Simultaneously with the acquisition by the Company of the Gilroy Power Plant, Gilroy Foods was acquired by ConAgra, Inc., an international food company with 1995 revenues of approximately $24.1 billion. It is necessary to continue to operate the host facility in order to maintain the Gilroy Power Plant's QF status. See "Government Regulation."
Natural gas for the Gilroy Power Plant is supplied pursuant to a contract with Amoco Energy Trading Corporation ("Amoco") expiring July 31, 1997. Natural gas is transported under a firm transportation agreement, expiring July 1, 1997.
The Gilroy Power Plant is located on approximately five acres of land which are leased to the Company by Gilroy Foods. The lease term runs concurrent with the term of the power sales agreement.
From August 29, 1996 through December 31, 1996, the Gilroy Power Plant generated approximately 231,365,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy for sale to PG&E and approximately $14.7 million in revenue.
Greenleaf 1 and 2 Power Plants
On April 21, 1995, Calpine completed the acquisition of the Greenleaf 1 and 2 cogeneration facilities (the "Greenleaf 1 and 2 Power Plants") for an adjusted purchase price of $81.5 million.
On June 30, 1995, Calpine refinanced the existing debt on the Greenleaf 1 and 2 Power Plants by borrowing $76.0 million from Sumitomo Bank. The non-recourse project financing with Sumitomo Bank is divided into two tranches, a $60.0 million fixed rate loan facility which bears interest on the unpaid principal at a fixed rate of 7.415% per annum, with amortization of principal based on a fixed schedule through June 30, 2005, and a $16.0 million floating rate loan facility which bears interest based on LIBOR plus an applicable margin, with the amortization of principal based on a fixed schedule through December 31, 2010.
The Greenleaf 1 and 2 Power Plants have a combined natural gas requirement of approximately 22,000 mmbtu/day. The Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary Calpine Fuels Corporation ("Calpine Fuels"), entered into a gas supply agreement with Montis Niger, Inc. ("MNI"), an affiliate of LFC, which owns and operates a local gas field connected to the facilities. On January 31, 1997, the Company purchased the stock of MNI. Calpine Fuels supplements the MNI gas supply with a short-term contract with Coastal Gas Marketing Company, which expires on April 30, 1997. This gas is delivered over PG&E's intrastate pipeline which is directly connected to each facility. The Greenleaf 1 and 2 Power Plants have interruptible transportation agreements with PG&E, expiring in June 1997.
Greenleaf 1 Power Plant. The Greenleaf 1 cogeneration facility (the "Greenleaf 1 Power Plant") is a 49.5 megawatt natural gas-fired cogeneration facility located near Yuba City, California. The Greenleaf 1 Power Plant includes an LM5000 gas turbine manufactured by General Electric, a Vogt heat recovery steam generator and a condensing General Electric steam turbine. The Greenleaf 1 Power Plant commenced commercial operation in March 1989. Since its acquisition by the Company in April 1995, the power plant has operated at an average availability of approximately 92.5%.
Electricity generated by the Greenleaf 1 Power Plant is sold to PG&E under a 30-year power sales agreement terminating in 2019 which contains payment provisions for capacity and energy. The power sales agreement provides for a firm capacity payment of $184 per kilowatt year for 49.2 megawatts for the term of
the agreement, so long as the Greenleaf 1 Power Plant delivers 80% of its firm capacity during certain designated periods of the year, and an as-delivered capacity payment for an additional 0.3 megawatts of capacity at $188 per kilowatt year for 1997. Thereafter, the payment for as-delivered capacity will be the greater of $188 per kilowatt year or PG&E's then current as-delivered capacity rate. In addition, the power sales agreement provides for payments for up to 49.5 megawatts of electrical energy actually delivered at a price equal to PG&E's avoided cost of energy (as determined by the CPUC). PG&E's avoided cost of energy varies from month to month and has ranged from an annual average of 1.84c to 2.96c per kilowatt hour since 1992. During 1996, PG&E's avoided cost of energy averaged approximately 2.26c per kilowatt hour.
In accordance with the power sales agreement, PG&E is entitled to curtail the Greenleaf 1 Power Plant during hydro-spill periods, or during periods of negative avoided costs. During 1996, the Greenleaf 1 Power Plant did not experience curtailment. PG&E may also interrupt or reduce deliveries if necessary to repair its system or because of system emergencies, forced outages, force majeure and compliance with prudent electrical practices.
In addition to the sale of electricity to PG&E, the Greenleaf 1 Power Plant sells thermal energy, in the form of hot exhaust to dry wood waste, to a thermal host which is owned and operated by the Company. It is necessary to continue to operate the host facility in order to maintain the Greenleaf 1 Power Plant's QF status. See "Government Regulation."
The Greenleaf 1 Power Plant is located on 77 acres owned by the Company near Yuba City, California.
For 1996, the Greenleaf 1 Power Plant generated approximately 354,182,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy for sale to PG&E and approximately $18.1 million in revenue.
Greenleaf 2 Power Plant. The Greenleaf 2 cogeneration facility (the "Greenleaf 2 Power Plant") is a 49.5 megawatt natural gas-fired cogeneration facility located near Yuba City, California. The Greenleaf 2 Power Plant includes a STIG LM5000 gas turbine manufactured by General Electric and a Deltak heat recovery steam generator. The Greenleaf 2 Power Plant commenced commercial operation in December 1989. Since its acquisition by the Company in April 1995, the power plant has operated at an average availability of approximately 96%.
Electricity generated by the Greenleaf 2 Power Plant is sold to PG&E under a 30-year power sales agreement terminating in 2019 which includes payment provisions for capacity and energy. The power sales agreement provides for a firm capacity payment of $184 per kilowatt year for 49.2 megawatts for the term of the agreement, so long as the Greenleaf 2 Power Plant delivers 80% of its firm capacity during certain designated periods of the year, and an as-delivered capacity payment for an additional 0.3 megawatts of capacity at $188 per kilowatt year through 1997. Thereafter, the payment for as-delivered capacity will be the greater of $188 per kilowatt year or PG&E's then current as-delivered capacity rate. In addition, the power sales agreement provides for payments for up to 49.5 megawatts of electrical energy actually delivered at a price equal to PG&E's avoided cost of energy (as determined by the CPUC). PG&E's avoided cost of energy varies from month to month and has ranged from an annual average of 1.84c to 2.96c per kilowatt hour since 1992. During 1996, PG&E's avoided cost of energy averaged approximately 2.26c per kilowatt hour.
In accordance with the power sales agreement, PG&E is entitled to curtail the Greenleaf 2 Power Plant during hydro-spill periods or during any period of negative avoided costs. During 1996, the Greenleaf 2 Power Plant did not experience curtailment. PG&E may also interrupt or reduce deliveries if necessary to repair its system or because of system emergencies, forced outages, force majeure and compliance with prudent electrical practices.
In addition to the sale of electricity to PG&E, the Greenleaf 2 Power Plant sells thermal energy to Sunsweet Growers, Inc. ("Sunsweet") pursuant to a 30-year contract. Sunsweet is the largest producer of dried fruit in the United States. It is necessary to continue to operate the host facility in order to maintain the status of the Greenleaf 2 Power Plant as a QF. See "Government Regulation."
The Greenleaf 2 Power Plant is located on 2.5 acres of land under a lease from Sunsweet, which runs concurrent with the power sales agreement.
For 1996, the Greenleaf 2 Power Plant generated approximately 399,707,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy for sale to PG&E and approximately $19.3 million in revenue.
Agnews Power Plant
The Agnews cogeneration facility (the "Agnews Power Plant") is a 29 megawatt natural gas-fired, combined-cycle cogeneration facility located on the East Campus of the state-owned Agnews Developmental Center in San Jose, California. Calpine holds a 20% ownership interest in GATX Calpine-Agnews, Inc., which is the sole stockholder of O.L.S. Energy-Agnews, Inc. ("O.L.S. Energy-Agnews"). O.L.S. Energy-Agnews leases the Agnews Power Plant under a sale leaseback arrangement. The other stockholder of GATX Calpine-Agnews, Inc. is GATX Capital Corporation ("GATX"), which has an 80% ownership interest. In connection with the sale leaseback arrangement, Calpine has agreed to reimburse GATX for its proportionate share of certain payments that may be made by GATX with respect to the Agnews Power Plant. The Company and GATX managed the development and financing of the Agnews Power Plant, which commenced commercial operations in December 1990.
The Company managed the engineering, construction and start-up of the Agnews Power Plant. The construction work was performed by Power Systems Engineering, Inc. under a turnkey contract. The power plant consists of an LM2500 aeroderivative gas turbine manufactured by General Electric, a Deltak unfired heat recovery steam generator and a Shin Nippon steam turbine-generator. Since start-up, the Agnews Power Plant has operated at an average availability of approximately 97%.
The total cost of the Agnews Power Plant was approximately $39.0 million. The construction financing was provided by Credit Suisse in the amount of $28.0 million. After the commencement of commercial operation, the power plant was sold to Nynex Credit Corporation under a sale leaseback arrangement with O.L.S. Energy-Agnews. Under the sale leaseback, O.L.S. Energy-Agnews has entered into a 22-year lease, commencing March 1991, providing for the payment of a fixed base rental, renewal options and a purchase option at fair market value at the termination of the lease.
Electricity generated by the Agnews Power Plant is sold to PG&E under a 30-year power sales agreement terminating in 2021 which contains payment provisions for capacity and energy. The power sales agreement provides for a payment of $196 per kilowatt year for 24 megawatts of firm capacity for the term of the agreement, so long as the Agnews Power Plant delivers at least 80% of its firm capacity of 24 megawatts during certain designated periods of the year, and an as-delivered capacity payment for an additional 4 megawatts of capacity at $188 per kilowatt year for 1997 and 1998. Thereafter, the payment for as-delivered capacity will be the greater of $188 per kilowatt year or PG&E's then current as-delivered capacity rate. In addition, the power sales agreement provides for payments for up to 32 megawatts of electrical energy actually delivered at a price equal to (i) through 1998, the product of PG&E's fixed incremental energy rate and PG&E's utility electric generation gas cost, and (ii) thereafter, PG&E's avoided cost of energy (as determined by the CPUC). PG&E's avoided cost of energy varies from month to month and has ranged from an annual average of 1.84c to 2.96c per kilowatt hour since 1992. During 1996, PG&E's avoided cost of energy averaged approximately 2.26c per kilowatt hour.
Under certain circumstances, PG&E may curtail energy deliveries for up to 1,000 off-peak hours per year. During 1996, PG&E curtailed the energy purchased under the power sales agreement by 995 hours.
In addition to the sale of electricity to PG&E, the Agnews Power Plant produces and sells electricity and approximately 7,000 pounds per hour of steam to the Agnews Developmental Center pursuant to a 30-year energy service agreement. The energy service agreement provides that the State of California will purchase from the Agnews Power Plant all of its requirements for steam (up to a specified maximum) and for electricity (which has historically been less than one megawatt per year) for the East Campus of the Agnews Developmental Center for the term of the agreement. Steam sales are priced at the cost of production for the Agnews Developmental Center. Electricity sales are priced at the rates that would otherwise be paid to PG&E by the Agnews Developmental Center. The State of California is required to utilize the minimum amount of steam required to maintain the Agnews Power Plant's QF status. See "Government Regulation."
The supply of natural gas for the Agnews Power Plant is currently provided under a full requirements fuel supply agreement between O.L.S. Energy-Agnews and Amoco Energy Trading Corporation ("Amoco") which expires June 30, 1997. Intrastate transportation is provided under a firm gas transportation agreement with PG&E, expiring in June 1997.
The Agnews Power Plant is operated by the Company under an operating and maintenance agreement pursuant to which the Company is reimbursed for certain costs and is entitled to a fixed annual fee and an incentive payment based on performance. This agreement had an initial term of six years, expiring on December 31, 1996, and was renewed for an additional six-year term effective January 1, 1997.
The Agnews Power Plant is located on 1.4 acres of land leased from the Agnews Development Center under the terms of a 30-year lease that expires in 2021. This lease provides for rental payments to the State of California on a fixed payment basis until January 1, 1999, and thereafter based on the gross revenues derived from sales of electricity by the Agnews Power Plant, as well as a purchase option at fair market value.
During 1996, the Agnews Power Plant generated approximately 205,838,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy and total revenue of $11.0 million. In 1996, the Company recognized a loss of approximately $190,000 as a result of the Company's 20% ownership interest and recorded revenue of $2.0 million for services performed under the operating and maintenance agreement.
Watsonville Power Plant
The Watsonville cogeneration facility (the "Watsonville Power Plant") is a 28.5 megawatt natural gas-fired, combined cycle cogeneration facility located in Watsonville, California. On June 29, 1995, the Company acquired the operating lease for this facility for $900,000 from Ford Motor Credit Company. Under the terms of the lease, rent is payable each month from July through December. The lease terminates on December 29, 2009. The Watsonville Power Plant commenced commercial operation in May 1990. The power plant consists of a General Electric LM2500 gas turbine, a Deltak heat recovery steam generator and a Shin Nippon steam turbine. Since its acquisition by the Company in June 1995, the power plant has operated at an average availability of approximately 97%.
Electricity generated by the Watsonville Power Plant is sold to PG&E under a 20-year power sales agreement terminating in 2009 which contains payment provisions for capacity and energy. The power sales agreement provides for a payment of $178 per kilowatt year for 20.9 megawatts of firm capacity for the term of the agreement, so long as the Watsonville Power Plant delivers at least 80% of its firm capacity of 20.9 megawatts during certain designated periods of the year, and an as-delivered capacity payment for all megawatts of capacity delivered above the 20.9 megawatts of firm capacity. The power sales agreement provides for payments of all electrical energy actually delivered. Through April 2000, 1% of energy will be sold under the fixed energy price schedule set forth below, and 99% of the energy will be sold at PG&E's avoided cost of energy. The following schedule sets forth the fixed average energy prices (expressed in cents per kilowatt hour) and the as-delivered capacity prices per kilowatt year through 2000 for energy deliveries under the Watsonville Power Plant power sales agreement:
Thereafter, PG&E will pay for energy delivered at prices equal to PG&E's avoided cost of energy (as determined by the CPUC), and will pay for as-delivered capacity at the greater of $188 per kilowatt year or PG&E's then current as-delivered capacity rate. PG&E's avoided cost of energy varies from month to month and has ranged from an annual average of 1.84c to 2.96c per kilowatt hour since 1992. During 1996, PG&E's avoided cost of energy averaged approximately 2.26c per kilowatt hour.
Under certain circumstances, PG&E may curtail energy deliveries for up to 400 hours between January 1 and April 15 and an additional 900 off-peak hours from October 1 though April 30. From January 1, 1996 through December 31, 1996, PG&E curtailed energy purchases of 1,290 hours under the power sales agreement.
In addition to the sale of electricity to PG&E, during 1996 the Watsonville Power Plant produced and sold steam to two thermal hosts, Norcal Frozen Foods, Inc. ("Norcal") and Farmers Processing, both food processors. In August 1995, Norcal sold its facility to a subsidiary of Dean Foods ("Dean Foods"), which closed the facility on February 9, 1996. The lessor of the Watsonville Power Plant has constructed a water distillation facility on the site of the Watsonville Power Plant to replace the Dean Foods food processing facility. This facility commenced operations in August 1996 and is operated by the Company. It is necessary to continue to operate the host facilities in order to maintain the Watsonville Power Plant's QF status. See "Government Regulation."
Amoco is the supplier of natural gas to the Watsonville Power Plant. The Company has negotiated a contract with Amoco which will be effective through June 30, 1997. The Company's current contract is on a month-to-month basis with Amoco. PG&E provides firm gas transportation to the Watsonville Power Plant under a contract expiring June 30, 1997.
The Watsonville Power Plant is located on 1.8 acres of land leased from Dean Foods under the terms of a 30-year lease expiring in 2010.
For 1996, the Watsonville Power Plant generated approximately 205,942,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy for sale to PG&E and approximately $10.6 million in revenue.
West Ford Flat Power Plant
The West Ford Flat geothermal facility (the "West Ford Flat Power Plant") consists of a 27 megawatt geothermal power plant and associated steam fields located in the eastern portion of The Geysers area of northern California. The West Ford Flat Power Plant includes a power plant consisting of two turbines manufactured by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Inc. with rotors remanufactured by ABB Industries, Inc., two generators manufactured by Electric Machinery, Inc., and seven production wells and steam leases. The West Ford Flat Power Plant commenced commercial operation in December 1988. Since start-up, the West Ford Flat Power Plant has operated at an average availability of approximately 98%.
Electricity generated by the West Ford Flat Power Plant is sold to PG&E under a 20-year power sales agreement terminating in 2008 which contains payment provisions for capacity and energy. The power sales agreement provides for a firm capacity payment of $167 per kilowatt year for 27 megawatts of firm capacity for the term of the agreement, so long as the West Ford Flat Power Plant delivers 80% of its firm capacity during certain designated periods of the year. In addition, the power sales agreement provides for energy payments for electricity actually delivered based on a fixed price derived from a scheduled forecast of energy prices over the initial ten-year term of the agreement ending December 1998. The fixed average energy price for 1997 and 1998 is 13.83c cents per kilowatt hour under the West Ford Flat power sales agreement. Thereafter, PG&E is required to pay for electrical energy actually delivered at prices equal to PG&E's avoided cost of energy (as determined by the CPUC). PG&E's avoided cost of energy varies from month to month and has ranged from an annual average of 1.84c to 2.96c per kilowatt hour since 1992. During 1996, PG&E's avoided cost of energy averaged approximately 2.26c per kilowatt hour. The Company cannot accurately predict the avoided cost of energy prices that will be in effect at the expiration of the fixed price period under this agreement.
Under certain circumstances, PG&E may curtail energy deliveries for up to 1,000 off-peak hours per year. During 1996, PG&E curtailed the energy purchased under this agreement by 1,000 hours. In the event of such curtailment, the Company's results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The Company currently expects the maximum amount of curtailment allowed under the agreement during 1997.
The Company believes that the geothermal reserves that supply energy for use by the West Ford Flat Power Plant will be sufficient to operate at full capacity for the entire term of the power sales agreement due
principally to high reservoir pressures, low projected decline rates, limited development in adjacent areas and the substantial productive acreage dedicated to the West Ford Flat Power Plant.
The West Ford Flat Power Plant is located on 267 acres of leased land located in The Geysers. For a description of the leases covering the properties located in The Geysers, see Item 2. Properties.
During 1996, the West Ford Flat Power Plant generated approximately 219,849,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy for sale to PG&E and approximately $31.9 million of revenue.
Bear Canyon Power Plant
The Bear Canyon facility (the "Bear Canyon Power Plant") consists of a 20 megawatt geothermal power plant and associated steam fields located in the eastern portion of The Geysers area of northern California, two miles south of the West Ford Flat Power Plant. The Bear Canyon Power Plant includes a power plant consisting of two turbine generators manufactured by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Inc. with rotors remanufactured by ABB Industries, Inc., as well as nine production wells, an injection well and steam reserves. The Bear Canyon Power Plant commenced commercial operation in October 1988. Since start-up, the Bear Canyon Power Plant has operated at an average availability of approximately 98%.
Electricity generated by the Bear Canyon Power Plant is sold to PG&E under two 10 megawatt, 20-year power sales agreements terminating in 2008 which contain payment provisions for capacity and energy. One of the power sales agreements provides for a firm capacity payment of $156 per kilowatt year on four megawatts for the term of the agreement, so long as the Bear Canyon Power Plant delivers 80% of its firm capacity during certain designated periods of the year, and an as-delivered capacity payment for the additional six megawatts of capacity. The other agreement provides for an as-delivered capacity payment for the entire 10 megawatts. Both agreements provide for energy payments for electricity actually delivered based on a fixed price basis through the initial ten-year term of the agreement ending September 1998. The energy and as-delivered capacity prices through 1998 are 13.83c per kilowatt hour and $188 per kilowatt year, respectively. Thereafter, PG&E will pay for energy delivered at prices equal to PG&E's avoided cost of energy (as determined by the CPUC), and will pay for as-delivered capacity at the greater of $188 per kilowatt year or PG&E's then current as-delivered capacity rate. PG&E's avoided cost of energy varies from month to month and has ranged from an annual average of 1.84c to 2.96c per kilowatt hour since 1992. During 1996, PG&E's avoided cost of energy averaged approximately 2.26c per kilowatt hour. The Company cannot accurately predict the avoided cost of energy prices that will be in effect at the expiration of the fixed price period under this agreement.
Under certain circumstances, PG&E may curtail energy deliveries for up to 1,000 off-peak hours per year. During 1996, PG&E curtailed the energy purchased under this agreement by 1,000 hours. In the event of any such curtailment, the Company's results of operations may be materially adversely affected. The Company currently expects the maximum amount of curtailment allowed under the agreement during 1997.
The Company believes that the geothermal reserves for the Bear Canyon Power Plant will be sufficient to operate at full capacity for substantially all of the remaining term of the power sales agreements due principally to high reservoir pressures, low projected decline rates, limited development in adjacent areas and the substantial productive acreage dedicated to the Bear Canyon Power Plant.
The Bear Canyon Power Plant is located on 284 acres of land located in The Geysers covered by two leases: one with the State of California and the other with a private landowner. For a description of the leases covering the properties located at The Geysers, see Item 2. Properties.
During 1996, the Bear Canyon Power Plant generated approximately 161,785,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy and approximately $22.8 million of revenue.
Aidlin Power Plant
The Aidlin geothermal facility (the "Aidlin Power Plant") consists of a 20 megawatt geothermal power plant and associated steam fields located in the western portion of The Geysers area of northern California. The Company holds an indirect 5% ownership interest in the Aidlin Power Plant. The Company's ownership
interest is held in the form of a 10% general partnership interest in a limited partnership (the "Aidlin Partnership"), which in turn owns a 50% ownership interest, as both a limited and general partner, in Geothermal Energy Partners Ltd. ("GEP"), a limited partnership which is the owner of the Aidlin Power Plant. MetLife Capital Corporation owns the remaining 90% interest in the Aidlin Partnership as a limited partner. The remaining 50% of GEP is owned by subsidiaries of Mission Energy Company and Sumitomo Corporation. The Aidlin Power Plant commenced commercial operation in May 1989.
The Aidlin Power Plant includes a power plant consisting of two turbine and generator sets manufactured by Fuji Electric and ABB Industries, Inc., as well as seven production wells and two injection wells. Since start-up, the Aidlin Power Plant has operated at an average availability of approximately 99%.
The construction of the Aidlin Power Plant was financed with a $59.4 million term loan provided by Prudential, which bears interest at a fixed rate of 10.48% per annum and matures on June 30, 2008 according to a specified amortization schedule.
Electricity generated by the Aidlin Power Plant is sold to PG&E under two 10 megawatt, 20-year power sales agreements terminating in 2009 which contain payment provisions for capacity and energy. The power sales agreements provide for an aggregate firm capacity payment for 17 megawatts of $167 per kilowatt year for the term of the agreements, so long as the Aidlin Power Plant delivers 80% of its capacity during certain designated periods of the year. In addition, the Aidlin power sales agreements provide for energy payments for 20 megawatts based on a schedule of fixed energy prices in effect through 1999 of 13.83c per kilowatt hour. Thereafter, PG&E is required to pay for electrical energy actually delivered at prices equal to PG&E's avoided cost of energy (as determined by the CPUC). PG&E's avoided cost of energy varies from month to month and has ranged from an annual average of 1.84c to 2.96c per kilowatt hour since 1992. During 1996, PG&E's avoided cost of energy averaged approximately 2.26c per kilowatt hour. The Company cannot accurately predict the avoided cost of energy that will be in effect at the expiration of the fixed price period under this agreement.
Under certain circumstances, PG&E may curtail energy deliveries for up to 1,000 off-peak hours per year. During 1996, PG&E curtailed the energy purchased under this agreement by 1,000 hours.
The Aidlin Power Plant is operated and maintained by the Company under an operating and maintenance agreement pursuant to which the Company is reimbursed for certain costs and is entitled to an incentive payment based on project performance. This agreement expires on December 31, 1999.
The Aidlin Power Plant is located on 713.8 acres of land located in The Geysers, which is leased by GEP from a private landowner. The lease will remain in force so long as geothermal steam is produced in commercial quantities.
During 1996, the Aidlin Power Plant generated approximately 167,804,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy and revenue of $22.3 million. In 1996, the Company recognized revenue of approximately $331,000 as a result of the Company's 5% ownership interest and $4.0 million for services performed under the operating and maintenance agreement.
Steam Fields
Thermal Power Company Steam Fields
The Company acquired Thermal Power Company on September 9, 1994 for a purchase price of $66.5 million. Thermal Power Company owns a 25% undivided interest in certain geothermal steam fields located at The Geysers in northern California (the "Thermal Power Company Steam Fields"). Union Oil Company of California ("Union Oil") owns the remaining 75% interest in the steam fields and operates and maintains the steam fields. The Thermal Power Company Steam Fields include the leasehold rights to 13,908 acres of steam fields which supply steam to 12 PG&E power plants located in The Geysers and include over 240 production wells, 18 injection wells and 55 miles of steam-transporting pipeline. See Item 2. Properties. The 12 plants have a nameplate capacity of 978 megawatts and currently have the capability to operate at over 600 megawatts. The steam fields commenced commercial operation in 1960.
The Thermal Power Company Steam Fields produce steam for sale to PG&E under a long-term steam sales agreement. Under this steam sales agreement, the Company is paid on the basis of the amount of electricity produced by the power plants to which steam is supplied. PG&E is obligated to use its best efforts to operate its power plants to maintain monthly and annual steam field capacity. The price paid for steam under the steam sales agreement is determined according to a formula that consists of the average of three indices multiplied by a fixed price of 1.65c per kilowatt hour. The indices used are the Producer Price Index for Crude Petroleum, the Producer Price Index for Natural Gas and the Consumer Price Index ("CPI"). The price of steam under the steam sales agreement in 1996 was 1.622c per kilowatt hour. The price for 1997 is expected to be approximately 1.907c per kilowatt hour. In addition, the Company receives a monthly fee for effluent disposal and maintenance. During 1996, such monthly fee was $147,000 per month.
In March 1996, the Company and Union Oil entered into an alternative pricing agreement with PG&E for any steam produced in excess of 40% of average field capacity as defined in the steam sales contract. The alternative pricing agreement is effective through December 31, 2000. Under the alternative pricing agreement, PG&E has the option to purchase a portion of the steam that PG&E would likely curtail under the existing steam sales agreement. The price for this portion of steam will be set by the Company and Union Oil with the intent that it be at competitive market prices. The Company and Union Oil will solely determine the price and duration of these alternative prices.
The steam sales agreement with PG&E also provides for offset payments, which constitute a remedy for insufficient steam. Under the steam sales agreement, the Company is required to pay PG&E for the unamortized costs, including site clean-up, removal and abandonment costs, of power plants that are installed but are unused as a result of steam supply deficiency. The offset payments are calculated based upon a fixed amortization schedule for all power plants, which may be adjusted for future capital expenditures, and upon the steam fields' capacity in megawatts. In accordance with the steam sales agreement, the Company makes offset payments at a reduced rate until total offsets calculated since July 1, 1991 equal $15.0 million. Accordingly, the Company's share of offsets in 1996 was $672,000. In approximately 2000 or 2001, when total offsets may exceed $15.0 million, in accordance with the agreement the Company's share of offset payments to PG&E would be approximately 3 1/2 times their current rate (as calculated at the current steam field capacity).
In accordance with the steam sales agreement, PG&E may curtail the power plants which receive steam in order to produce energy from lower cost sources. PG&E is contractually obligated to operate all of the power plants at a minimum of 40% of the field capacity during any given year, and at 25% of the field capacity in any given month. During 1996, the Thermal Power Company Steam Fields experienced curtailment of steam production due to low gas prices and abundant hydro power. The Company receives a monthly fee for PG&E's right to curtail its power plants. Such fee was $13,200 per month during 1996.
The steam sales agreement with PG&E terminates two years after the closing of the last operating power plant. In addition, PG&E may terminate the contract earlier with a one-year written notice. If PG&E terminates in accordance with the steam sales agreement, the Company will provide capacity maintenance services for five years after the termination date, and will retain a right of first refusal to purchase the PG&E facilities at PG&E's unamortized cost. Alternatively, the Company may terminate the agreement with a two-year written notice to PG&E. If the Company terminates, PG&E has the right to take assignment of the Thermal Power Company Steam Fields' facilities on the date of termination. In that case, the Company would continue to pay offset payments for three years following the date of termination. Under the steam sales agreement, PG&E may retire older power plants upon a minimum of six-months' notice. The Company is unable to predict PG&E's schedule for the retirement of such power plants, which may change from time to time. If steam is abandoned (i.e., cannot be transported to the remaining plants), the abandoned steam may be delivered for use to other PG&E power plants, subject to existing contract conditions, or to other customers upon closure of a PG&E power plant.
The Thermal Power Company Steam Fields currently supply steam sufficient to operate the PG&E power plants at approximately 60% of their combined nameplate capacity. This percentage reflects a decline in productivity since the commencement of operations. While it is not possible to accurately predict long-term
steam field productivity, the Company has estimated that the current annual rate of decline in steam field productivity of the Thermal Power Company Steam Fields was approximately 9% until 1995, during which year extensive curtailment interrupted the decline trend. The Company expects steam field productivity to continue to decline in the future. The Company plans to work with Union Oil and PG&E to partially offset the expected rate of decline by the development of water injection projects and power plant improvements.
During 1996, the PG&E power plants produced 3,208,984,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy of which the Company's 25% share is 802,246,000 kilowatt hours for approximately $13.1 million of revenue.
PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields
The Company holds the leasehold rights to 1,631 acres of steam fields (the "PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields") that supply steam to PG&E's Unit 13 power plant (the "Unit 13") and PG&E's Unit 16 power plant (the "Unit 16"), all of which are located in The Geysers. See Item 2. Properties. Unit 13 and Unit 16 have nameplate capacities of 98 and 113 megawatts, respectively, and currently operate at outputs of approximately 86 and 82 megawatts, respectively. The PG&E Unit 13 Steam Field includes 956 acres, 30 production wells, three injection wells and five miles of pipeline, and commenced commercial operations in May 1980. The PG&E Unit 16 Steam Field includes 675 acres, 19 producing wells, one injection well, and three miles of pipeline, and commenced commercial operation in October 1985.
The PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields produce steam for sale to PG&E under long-term steam sales agreements. Under the steam sales agreements with PG&E, the Company is paid for steam on the basis of the amount of electricity produced by Unit 13 and Unit 16. The price paid for steam under the PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields agreements is determined according to a formula that is essentially a weighted average of PG&E's fossil (oil and gas) fuel price and PG&E's nuclear fuel price. The price of steam for 1996 was 0.955c per kilowatt hour. The price for 1997 is expected to be approximately 0.985c per kilowatt hour. The Company receives an additional 0.05c per kilowatt hour from PG&E for the disposal of liquid effluents produced at Unit 13 and Unit 16.
During conditions of hydro-spill, PG&E may curtail energy deliveries from Unit 13 and Unit 16 which would reduce deliveries of steam under this agreement. Curtailments are primarily the result of a higher degree of precipitation during the period, which results in higher levels of energy generation by hydroelectric power facilities that supply electricity for sale by PG&E. In the event of any such curtailment, the Company's results of operations may be materially adversely affected. PG&E curtailed approximately 63,000,000 kilowatt hours under the steam sales agreement during 1996.
The steam sales agreement with PG&E continues in effect for as long as either Unit 13 or Unit 16 remains in commercial operation, which depends on maintaining the productive capacity of the respective steam fields. However, PG&E may terminate the agreement if the quantity, quality or purity of the steam is such that the operation of Unit 13 or Unit 16 becomes economically impractical. The Company currently estimates that the productive capacity of the PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields is approximately 22 years. However, no assurance can be given that the operation of either Unit 13 or Unit 16 will not become economically impractical at any time during these periods.
The Company is required to supply a sufficient quantity of steam of specified quality to Unit 16. If an insufficient quantity of steam is delivered, the Company may be subject to penalty provisions, including suspension of PG&E's obligation to pay for steam delivered. Specifically, if the Company fails to deliver to Unit 16 in any calendar month a sufficient quantity of steam adequate to operate the power plant at or above a capacity factor of 50%, no payment shall be made for steam delivered to such Unit during such month until the cost of that Unit has been completely amortized by PG&E.
In order to increase the efficiency of Unit 13 by approximately 20%, the Company agreed to purchase new rotors for approximately $10.0 million. In exchange, PG&E agreed to amend the steam sales agreement to remove the penalty provision for a failure to deliver a sufficient quantity of steam to Unit 13 and to require PG&E to operate at variable pressure operations which will optimize production at the PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields.
The PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields currently supply steam sufficient to operate Unit 13 and Unit 16 at approximately 80% of their combined nameplate capacities. This percentage reflects a decline in the productivity of the PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields since the commencement of operations of Unit 13 and Unit 16. While it is not possible to accurately predict long-term steam field productivity, the Company has estimated that the annual rate of decline in steam field productivity of the PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields was approximately 8.7% in 1996. The Company expects steam field productivity to continue to decline in the future, but at reduced annual rates of decline. The Company considered these declines in steam field productivity in developing its original projections for the PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields at the time the Company acquired its initial interest in 1990. The Company plans to partially offset the expected rate of decline by implementing enhanced water injection and power plant improvements.
During 1996, the PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields produced sufficient steam to permit Unit 13 and Unit 16 to produce approximately 1,269,400,000 kilowatt hours of electrical energy and approximately $12.8 million of revenue.
SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields
The Company holds the leasehold rights to 394 acres of steam fields that supply steam to the power plant for the Sacramento Municipal Utility District ("SMUD") SMUDGEO #1 steam fields (the "SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields"). See Item 2. Properties. The SMUD power plant has a nameplate capacity of 72 megawatts and currently operates at an output of 59 megawatts. The SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields include 19 producing wells, one injection well and two and one half miles of pipeline. Commercial operation of the SMUD power plant commenced in October 1983.
The steam sales agreement with SMUD provides that SMUD will pay for steam based upon the quantity of steam delivered to the SMUD power plant. The current price paid for steam delivered under the steam sales agreement is $1.77 per thousand pounds of steam, which is adjusted semi-annually based on changes in the Gross National Product Implicit Price Deflator Index and Producers Price Index for Fuels, Related Products and Power. SMUD may suspend payments for steam in any month if the Company is unable to deliver 50% of the steam requirement until the cost of the plant and related facilities have been completely amortized by the value of such steam delivered to the plant. Based on current estimates and analyses performed by the Company, the Company does not expect SMUD to suspend payments for steam under this provision. The Company receives an additional 0.15c per kilowatt hour from SMUD for the disposal of liquid effluents produced at the SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields.
The steam sales agreement with SMUD continues until the expiration or termination of the geothermal lease covering the SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields, which continues for so long as steam is produced in commercial quantities. The Company and SMUD each have the right to terminate the agreement if their respective operations become economically impractical. In the event that SMUD exercises its right to terminate, the Company will have no further obligation to deliver steam to the power plants.
The SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields currently supply steam sufficient to operate the SMUD power plant at approximately 82% of its nameplate capacity. This percentage reflects a decline in the productivity of the SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields since commencement of operations. Although the SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields productivity increased in 1995 and did not decline in 1996 (due to curtailment of neighboring plants), the Company expects the SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields' productivity to decline in the future.
During 1996, the SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields produced approximately 6,835,390 thousand pounds of steam and approximately $14.6 million of revenue.
Cerro Prieto Steam Fields
In 1995, the Company entered into a series of agreements with Constructora y Perforadora Latina, S.A. de C.V. ("Coperlasa") and certain of Coperlasa's creditors pursuant to which the Company has agreed to invest up to $20 million in the Cerro Prieto steam fields (the "Cerro Prieto Steam Fields") located in Baja
California, Mexico. The Cerro Prieto Steam Fields provide geothermal steam to three geothermal power plants owned and operated by Comision Federal de Electricidad ("CFE"), the Mexican national utility.
The Company's investment consists of a loan of $18.5 million and a $1.5 million payment for an option to purchase a 29% equity interest in Coperlasa for $5.8 million.
The $18.5 million loan was made in installments throughout 1995 and 1996, which provided capital to Coperlasa to fund the drilling of new wells and the repair of existing wells to meet its performance under the agreement with CFE. The loan matures in November 1999 and bears interest at an effective rate of 18.9% per annum. The Company is deferring the recognition of income on this loan until the Cerro Prieto project generates sufficient cash flows available for distribution to support the collectibility of interest earned (see Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
Pursuant to a technical services agreement, the Company receives fees for its technical services provided to Coperlasa. In addition, if the Company is successful in assisting Coperlasa in producing steam at a lower cost, the Company will receive 30% of the savings.
The Cerro Prieto Steam Fields are located near the city of Mexicali, Baja California, at the border of Baja California and the State of California. The Cerro Prieto geothermal resource, which has been commercially produced by CFE since 1973, provides approximately 70% of Baja California's electricity requirements since this region is not connected to the Mexican national power grid.
The steam sales agreement between Coperlasa and CFE was entered into in May 1991. Under this agreement, CFE pays for steam delivered up to 1,600 tons per hour plus 10%. Payments for the steam delivered are made in Mexican pesos and are adjusted by a formula that accounts for the increases in inflation in Mexico and the United States, as well as for the devaluation of the peso against the U.S. dollar. This agreement has a termination date of October 2000. While the Company believes that Coperlasa is in an advantageous position to renegotiate or bid for the right to supply steam over a longer term, there can be no assurance that the steam sales agreement will be extended beyond its current termination date.
DEVELOPMENT AND FUTURE PROJECTS
The Company is continually engaged in the evaluation of various opportunities for the development and acquisition of additional power generation facilities. However, there is no assurance the Company will be successful in the acquisition or development of power generation projects in the future. See "Risk Factors."
Pasadena Cogeneration Project
Calpine has entered into a development agreement with Phillips Petroleum Company ("Phillips") to construct and operate a 240 megawatt gas-fired cogeneration project at the Phillips Houston Chemical Complex ("HCC") located in Pasadena, Texas (the "Pasadena Cogeneration Project"). On December 19, 1996, the Company entered into an Energy Sales Agreement with Phillips pursuant to which Phillips will purchase all of the HCC's steam and electricity requirements of approximately 90 megawatts. It is anticipated that the remainder of available electricity output will be sold into the competitive market through Calpine's power marketing activities. The Company provided a $3.0 million letter of credit to Phillips to secure the performance under the Energy Project Development Agreement. On December 20, 1996, the Company entered into a credit agreement with ING U.S. Capital Corporation to provide $98.6 million of non-recourse project financing for the Pasadena Cogeneration Project. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, Calpine Corporation, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Calpine Pasadena Cogeneration, Inc. and Calpine Texas Cogeneration, Inc., contributed $53.1 million in equity to the project. The Company commenced construction in February 1997, with commercial operation scheduled to begin in October 1998. However, there can be no assurances that the Company will be successful in completing any additional power sales agreements or that the anticipated schedule for construction will be met.
Glass Mountain Geothermal Project
Calpine is pursuing the development of a geothermal power project at Glass Mountain, which is located in northern California about 25 miles south of the Oregon border (the "Glass Mountain Project"). Glass Mountain is believed to be the largest undeveloped geothermal resource in the United States. In area, the resource is larger than The Geysers, where approximately 1,200 megawatts of capacity is operating. The Company believes that Glass Mountain has an estimated potential in excess of 1,000 megawatts and is seeking potential customers for the power to be produced by this project.
In August 1994, the Company entered into a partnership with Trans-Pacific Geothermal Corporation ("TGC") to construct and operate a 30 megawatt project at Glass Mountain (the "Partnership"). TGC had previously signed a memorandum of understanding ("MOU") with Bonneville Power Administration ("BPA") and the Springfield, Oregon Utility Board ("SUB") to develop the project at Vale, Oregon. BPA and SUB consented on August 25, 1994 to the assignment of the MOU to the Partnership and the relocation of the project to Glass Mountain. The MOU contemplated execution of a 45-year power purchase agreement subject to satisfaction of certain conditions precedent and included an option for an additional 100 megawatts.
In December 1996, the Partnership and BPA entered into a settlement agreement which restructured the rights and obligations of the parties. In return for a $12.0 million payment by BPA to the Partnership and the grant by the Partnership to BPA of future options to purchase power at Glass Mountain, the Partnership and BPA terminated the MOU and certain ancillary agreements. In addition, BPA will pay the Partnership additional consideration should certain future events occur related to ongoing environmental review of the Glass Mountain project. Following the settlement with BPA, TGC withdrew from the Partnership (see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).
In March 1996, the Company completed the acquisition of certain Glass Mountain geothermal leases. As a result, the Company currently holds an interest in approximately 29,000 acres of federal geothermal leases at Glass Mountain. See Item 2. Properties.
Indonesian Geothermal Project
Calpine plans to develop geothermal facilities in the Lampung Province of Indonesia, located in southern Sumatra. The geothermal resource at Ulubelu is estimated to have potential capacity in excess of 500 megawatts. The Company anticipates that the facility would sell electricity to Perusahaan Umum Listrik Negara ("PLN"), the state-owned electric company. The first phase of the project is expected to be 110 megawatts.
The Company's joint venture partner will be PT. Dharmasatrya Arthasentosa ("DATRA"), a company with interests in coal mining and other ventures. The Company expects that it will be the project's managing partner, with responsibility for the design, construction and operation of the power plant. The ownership structure, as planned, will be a joint venture with DATRA in which the Company would be the managing partner and hold at least a 50% equity interest, and as much as 85% of the project. DATRA would hold up to 50% of the project.
In March 1996, the Company and DATRA entered into a joint venture agreement to develop Ulubelu. The Company and DATRA are negotiating with the National Resource Agency Pertamina ("Pertamina") regarding resource development. Deep test well drilling and flow tests by Pertamina are planned during 1997 at Ulubelu. Commercial operation is anticipated in 2001 for the initial phase of the project. There can be no assurances, however, that this transaction will be consummated on these terms, if at all, that the proposed timetable will be met or that commercial operation of these resources will be feasible.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
The Company is subject to complex and stringent energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels in connection with the development, ownership and operation of its energy generation facilities. Federal laws and regulations govern transactions by electrical and gas utility companies, the types of fuel which may be utilized by an electric generating plant, the type of
energy which may be produced by such a plant and the ownership of a plant. State utility regulatory commissions must approve the rates and, in some instances, other terms and conditions under which public utilities purchase electric power from independent producers and sell retail electric power. Under certain circumstances where specific exemptions are otherwise unavailable, state utility regulatory commissions may have broad jurisdiction over non-utility electric power plants. Energy producing projects also are subject to federal, state and local laws and administrative regulations which govern the emissions and other substances produced, discharged or disposed of by a plant and the geographical location, zoning, land use and operation of a plant. Applicable federal environmental laws typically have both state and local enforcement and implementation provisions. These environmental laws and regulations generally require that a wide variety of permits and other approvals be obtained before the commencement of construction or operation of an energy-producing facility and that the facility then operate in compliance with such permits and approvals.
Federal Energy Regulation
PURPA
The enactment of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended ("PURPA") and the adoption of regulations thereunder by FERC provided incentives for the development of cogeneration facilities and small power production facilities (those utilizing renewable fuels and having a capacity of less than 80 megawatts).
A domestic electricity generating project must be a QF under FERC regulations in order to take advantage of certain rate and regulatory incentives provided by PURPA. PURPA exempts owners of QFs from the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended ("PUHCA"), and exempts QFs from most provisions of the Federal Power Act (the "FPA") and, except under certain limited circumstances, state laws concerning rate or financial regulation. These exemptions are important to the Company and its competitors. The Company believes that each of the electricity generating projects in which the Company owns an interest currently meets the requirements under PURPA necessary for QF status. Most of the projects which the Company is currently planning or developing are also expected to be QFs.
PURPA provides two primary benefits to QFs. First, QFs generally are relieved of compliance with extensive federal, state and local regulations that control the financial structure of an electric generating plant and the prices and terms on which electricity may be sold by the plant. Second, the FERC's regulations promulgated under PURPA require that electric utilities purchase electricity generated by QFs at a price based on the purchasing utility's "avoided cost," and that the utility sell back-up power to the QF on a non- discriminatory basis. The term "avoided cost" is defined as the incremental cost to an electric utility of electric energy or capacity, or both, which, but for the purchase from QFs, such utility would generate for itself or purchase from another source. The FERC regulations also permit QFs and utilities to negotiate agreements for utility purchases of power at rates lower than the utility's avoided costs. Due to increasing competition for utility contracts, the current practice is for most power sales agreements to be awarded at a rate below avoided cost. While public utilities are not explicitly required by PURPA to enter into long-term power sales agreements, PURPA helped to create a regulatory environment in which it has been common for long-term agreements to be negotiated.
In order to be a QF, a cogeneration facility must produce not only electricity, but also useful thermal energy for use in an industrial or commercial process for heating or cooling applications in certain proportions to the facility's total energy output and must meet certain energy efficiency standards. Finally, a QF (including a geothermal or hydroelectric QF or other qualifying small power producer) must not be controlled or more than 50% owned by an electric utility or by most electric utility holding companies, or a subsidiary of such a utility or holding company or any combination thereof.
The Company endeavors to develop its projects, monitor compliance by the projects with applicable regulations and choose its customers in a manner which minimizes the risks of any project losing its QF status. Certain factors necessary to maintain QF status are, however, subject to the risk of events outside the Company's control. For example, loss of a thermal energy customer or failure of a thermal energy customer to take required amounts of thermal energy from a cogeneration facility that is a QF could cause the facility to
fail requirements regarding the level of useful thermal energy output. Upon the occurrence of such an event, the Company would seek to replace the thermal energy customer or find another use for the thermal energy which meets PURPA's requirements, but no assurance can be given that this would be possible.
If one of the projects in which the Company has an interest should lose its status as a QF, the project would no longer be entitled to the exemptions from PUHCA and the FPA. This could trigger certain rights of termination under the power sales agreement, could subject the project to rate regulation as a public utility under the FPA and state law and could result in the Company inadvertently becoming a public utility holding company by owning more than 10% of the voting securities of, or controlling, a facility that would no longer be exempt from PUHCA. This could cause all of the Company's remaining projects to lose their qualifying status, because QFs may not be controlled or more than 50% owned by such public utility holding companies. Loss of QF status may also trigger defaults under covenants to maintain QF status in the projects' power sales agreements, steam sales agreements and financing agreements and result in termination, penalties or acceleration of indebtedness under such agreements such that loss of status may be on a retroactive or a prospective basis.
If a project were to lose its QF status, the Company could attempt to avoid holding company status (and thereby protect the QF status of its other projects) on a prospective basis by restructuring the project, by changing its voting interest in the entity owning the non-qualifying project to nonvoting or limited partnership interests and selling the voting interest to an individual or company which could tolerate the lack of exemption from PUHCA, or by otherwise restructuring ownership of the project so as not to become a holding company. These actions, however, would require approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or a no-action letter from the SEC, and would result in a loss of control over the non-qualifying project, could result in a reduced financial interest therein and might result in a modification of the Company's operation and maintenance agreement relating to such project. A reduced financial interest could result in a gain or loss on the sale of the interest in such project, the removal of the affiliate through which the ownership interest is held from the consolidated income tax group or the consolidated financial statements of the Company, or a change in the results of operations of the Company. Loss of QF status on a retroactive basis could lead to, among other things, fines and penalties being levied against the Company and its subsidiaries and claims by utilities for refund of payments previously made.
Under the Energy Policy Act of 1992, if a project can be qualified as an exempt wholesale generator ("EWG"), it will be exempt from PUHCA even if it does not qualify as a QF. Therefore, another response to the loss or potential loss of QF status would be to apply to have the project qualified as an EWG. However, assuming this changed status would be permissible under the terms of the applicable power sales agreement, rate approval from FERC and approval of the utility would be required. In addition, the project would be required to cease selling electricity to any retail customers (such as the thermal energy customer) and could become subject to state regulation of sales of thermal energy. See "Public Utility Holding Company Regulation."
Currently, Congress is considering proposed legislation that would amend PURPA by eliminating the requirement that utilities purchase electricity from QFs at avoided costs. The Company does not know whether such legislation will be passed or what form it may take. The Company believes that if any such legislation is passed, it would apply to new projects. As a result, although such legislation may adversely affect the Company's ability to develop new projects, the Company believes it would not affect the Company's existing QFs. There can be no assurance, however, that any legislation passed would not adversely impact the Company's existing projects.
Public Utility Holding Company Regulation
Under PUHCA, any corporation, partnership or other legal entity which owns or controls 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a "public utility company" or a company which is a "holding company" for a public utility company is subject to registration with the SEC and regulation under PUHCA, unless eligible for an exemption. A holding company of a public utility company that is subject to registration is required by PUHCA to limit its utility operations to a single integrated utility system and to divest any other operations
not functionally related to the operation of that utility system. Approval by the SEC is required for nearly all important financial and business dealings of the holding company. Under PURPA, most QFs are not public utility companies under PUHCA.
The Energy Policy Act of 1992, among other things, amends PUHCA to allow EWGs, under certain circumstances, to own and operate non-QFs without subjecting those producers to registration or regulation under PUHCA. The expected effect of such amendments would be to enhance the development of non-QFs which do not have to meet the fuel, production and ownership requirements of PURPA. The Company believes that the amendments could benefit the Company by expanding its ability to own and operate facilities that do not qualify for QF status, but may also result in increased competition by allowing utilities to develop such facilities which are not subject to the constraints of PUHCA.
Federal Natural Gas Transportation Regulation
The Company has an ownership interest in and operates seven natural gas-fired cogeneration projects. The cost of natural gas is ordinarily the largest expense (other than debt costs) of a project and is critical to the project's economics. The risks associated with using natural gas can include the need to arrange transportation of the gas from great distances, including obtaining removal, export and import authority if the gas is transported from Canada; the possibility of interruption of the gas supply or transportation (depending on the quality of the gas reserves purchased or dedicated to the project, the financial and operating strength of the gas supplier, and whether firm or non-firm transportation is purchased); and obligations to take a minimum quantity of gas and pay for it (i.e., take-and-pay obligations).
Pursuant to the Natural Gas Act, FERC has jurisdiction over the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce. With respect to most transactions that do not involve the construction of pipeline facilities, regulatory authorization can be obtained on a self-implementing basis. However, pipeline rates for such services are subject to continuing FERC oversight. Order No. 636, issued by FERC in April 1992, mandates the restructuring of interstate natural gas pipeline sales and transportation services and will result in changes in the terms and conditions under which interstate pipelines will provide transportation services, as well as the rates pipelines may charge for such services. The restructuring required by the rule includes (i) the separation (unbundling) of a pipeline's sales and transportation services, (ii) the implementation of a straight fixed-variable rate design methodology under which all of a pipeline's fixed costs are recovered through its reservation charge, (iii) the implementation of a capacity releasing mechanism under which holders of firm transportation capacity on pipelines can release that capacity for resale by the pipeline and (iv) the opportunity for pipelines to recover 100% of their prudently incurred costs (transition costs) associated with implementing the restructuring mandated by the rule. Pipelines were required to file tariff sheets implementing Order No. 636 by December 31, 1992. FERC affirmed the major components of Order No. 636 in Order Nos. 636A and B issued in August and November 1992. The restructuring required by the rule became effective in late 1993.
State Regulation
State public utility commissions ("PUCs") have historically had broad authority to regulate both the rates charged by, and the financial activities of, electric utilities and to promulgate regulation for implementation of PURPA. Since a power sales contract becomes a part of a utility's cost structure (generally reflected in its retail rates), power sales contracts with independent electricity producers are potentially under the regulatory purview of PUCs and in particular the process by which the utility has entered into the power sales contracts. If a PUC has approved the process by which a utility secures its power supply, a PUC is generally inclined to "pass through" the expense associated with an independent power contract to the utility's retail customer. However, a regulatory commission under certain circumstances may disallow the full reimbursement to a utility for the cost to purchase power from a QF. In addition, retail sales of electricity or thermal energy by an independent power producer may be subject to PUC regulation depending on state law. Independent power producers which are not QFs under PURPA, or EWGs pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 1992, are considered to be public utilities in many states and are subject to broad regulation by a PUC, ranging from requirement of certificate of public convenience and necessity to regulation of organizational,
accounting, financial and other corporate matters. States may assert jurisdiction over the siting and construction of electric generating facilities including QFs and, with the exception of QFs, over the issuance of securities and the sale or other transfer of assets by these facilities.
The California Public Utilities Commission ("CPUC") and the California Joint Legislative Committee on Lowering the Cost of Electric Services commenced proceedings and hearings related to the restructure of the California electric services industry in 1994. The proceedings and hearings were initiated as a result of the CPUC study and Order Instituting Rulemaking and Order Instituting Investigation on the Commission's Proposed Policies Governing Restructuring California's Electric Services Industry and Reforming Regulation, issued by the CPUC on April 20, 1994. The FERC, as authorized under the Energy Policy Act of 1992, has also initiated proceedings and continues to hold workshops and hearings on policy issues related to a more competitive electric services industry. Though the state of California appears to be at the forefront, many other states are in various stages of review and interest in deregulation, moving toward a more competitive electric services industry.
On December 20, 1995, the CPUC issued its decision on California electric industry restructure which envisioned commencement of deregulation and implementation of customer choice beginning January 1, 1998, with all customers participating by 2003. The decision provided for phased-in customer choice, development of a non-discriminatory market structure, full recovery of utility stranded costs, sanctity of existing contracts, and continuation of existing public purpose programs including promotion of fuel diversity through a renewable energy purchase requirement. On February 5, 1996, the CPUC issued a procedural plan to facilitate the transition of the electric generation market to competition by January 1, 1988. The electric restructuring roadmap focused on the multiple and interrelated tasks to be accomplished and set forth the process to achieve the necessary procedural milestones to be completed in order to meet the January 1, 1998 restructure implementation goal.
In 1996, the Joint Legislative Conference Committee held hearings related to electric industry restructure and drafted legislation, AB 1890 (the "Bill"), which was approved by the legislature in August and signed by the Governor on September 23, 1996. The legislation codifies much of the December CPUC decision as modified in January 1996 and directed the CPUC to proceed with resolve of outstanding issues resulting in implementation of restructure no later than January 1, 1998. The Bill accelerated the transition period in which utilities are allowed to recover their stranded costs from five years to four years, continued to provide for sanctity of existing contracts with provisions for voluntary restructure, established an electricity rate freeze for the transition period and mandated a 10% rate reduction effective January 1, 1998 for small commercial and residential customers through issuance of rate reduction bonds, and replaced the CPUC renewable technology purchase requirement with funds specified for use in public service programs.
On December 20, 1996, the CPUC responded to the legislation and issued an updated procedural roadmap consistent with provisions included in the Bill. Proceedings are ongoing at the CPUC and FERC for establishment of an Independent Systems Operator ("ISO") responsible for centralized control and efficient and reliable operation of the state-wide electric transmission grid, and a Power Exchange ("PX") responsible for an efficient competitive electric energy auction open on a non-discriminatory basis to all electric services providers. Other proceedings now ongoing include the quantification and qualification of utility stranded costs to be eligible for recovery through competitive transition charges ("CTC"), market power mitigation through utility divestiture of fossil generation plants (Pacific Gas & Electric 50%; Southern California Edison, 100%), the unbundling and establishment of rate structure for historical utility functions, eligibility and phase-in schedule for customer choice (direct access), the continuation of public purpose programs and issues related to issuance of rate reduction bonds.
The California Energy Commission ("CEC") and Legislature have responsibility for development of a competitive market mechanism for allocation and distribution of funds made available by the legislation for enhancement of in-state renewable resource technologies and public interest research and development programs. Funds are to be available through the four-year transition period to a fully competitive electric services industry. In addition to the significant opportunity provided for power producers such as Calpine through implementation of customer choice (direct access), the CPUC decision and the AB 1890 restructur-
ing legislation both recognize the sanctity of existing contracts, provide for mitigation of utility horizontal market power through divestiture of fossil generation and provide funds for continuation of public services programs including fuel diversity through enhancement for in-state renewable technologies (includes geothermal) for the four-year transition period to a fully competitive electric services industry.
State PUCs also have jurisdiction over the transportation of natural gas by local distribution companies ("LDCs"). Each state's regulatory laws are somewhat different; however, all generally require the LDC to obtain approval from the PUC for the construction of facilities and transportation services if the LDC's generally applicable tariffs do not cover the proposed transaction. LDC rates are usually subject to continuing PUC oversight.
Regulation of Canadian Gas
The Canadian natural gas industry is subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities. At the federal level, a party exporting gas from Canada must obtain an export license from the Canadian National Energy Board ("NEB"). The NEB also regulates Canadian pipeline transportation rates and the construction of pipeline facilities. Gas producers also must obtain a removal permit or license from provincial authorities before natural gas may be removed from the province, and provincial authorities may regulate intra-provincial pipeline and gathering systems. In addition, a party importing natural gas into the United States first must obtain an import authorization from the U.S. Department of Energy.
Environmental Regulations
The exploration for and development of geothermal resources and the construction and operation of power projects are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations adopted for the protection of the environment and to regulate land use. The laws and regulations applicable to the Company primarily involve the discharge of emissions into the water and air and the use of water, but can also include wetlands preservation, endangered species, waste disposal and noise regulations. These laws and regulations in many cases require a lengthy and complex process of obtaining licenses, permits and approvals from federal, state and local agencies.
Noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations can result in the imposition of civil or criminal fines or penalties. In some instances, environmental laws also may impose clean-up or other remedial obligations in the event of a release of pollutants or contaminants into the environment. The following federal laws are among the more significant environmental laws as they apply to the Company. In most cases, analogous state laws also exist that may impose similar, and in some cases more stringent, requirements on the Company as those discussed below.
Clean Air Act
The Federal Clean Air Act of 1970 (the "Clean Air Act") provides for the regulation, largely through state implementation of federal requirements, of emissions of air pollutants from certain facilities and operations. As originally enacted, the Clean Air Act sets guidelines for emissions standards for major pollutants (i.e., sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide) from newly built sources. In late 1990, Congress passed the Clean Air Act Amendments (the "1990 Amendments"). The 1990 Amendments attempt to reduce emissions from existing sources, particularly previously exempted older power plants. The Company believes that all of the Company's operating plants are in compliance with federal performance standards mandated for such plants under the Clean Air Act and the 1990 Amendments. With respect to its Aidlin geothermal plant and one of its steam field pipelines, the Company's operations have, in certain instances, necessitated variances under applicable California air pollution control laws. However, the Company believes that it is in material compliance with such laws with respect to such facilities.
Clean Water Act
The Federal Clean Water Act (the "Clean Water Act") establishes rules regulating the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. The Company is required to obtain a wastewater and storm water
discharge permit for wastewater and runoff, respectively, from certain of the Company's facilities. The Company believes that, with respect to its geothermal operations, it is exempt from newly-promulgated federal storm water requirements. The Company believes that it is in material compliance with applicable discharge requirements under the Clean Water Act.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") regulates the generation, treatment, storage, handling, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous waste. The Company believes that it is exempt from solid waste requirements under RCRA. However, particularly with respect to its solid waste disposal practices at the power generation facilities and steam fields located at The Geysers, the Company is subject to certain solid waste requirements under applicable California laws. The Company believes that its operations are in material compliance with such laws.
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA" or "Superfund"), requires cleanup of sites from which there has been a release or threatened release of hazardous substances and authorizes the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") to take any necessary response action at Superfund sites, including ordering potentially responsible parties ("PRPs") liable for the release to take or pay for such actions. PRPs are broadly defined under CERCLA to include past and present owners and operators of, as well as generators of wastes sent to, a site. As of the present time, the Company is not subject to liability for any Superfund matters. However, the Company generates certain wastes, including hazardous wastes, and sends certain of its wastes to third-party waste disposal sites. As a result, there can be no assurance that the Company will not incur liability under CERCLA in the future.
COMPETITION
The Company competes with independent power producers, including affiliates of utilities, in obtaining long-term agreements to sell electric power to utilities. In addition, utilities may elect to expand or create generating capacity through their own direct investments in new plants. Over the past decade, obtaining a power sales agreement with a utility has become an increasingly more difficult, expensive and competitive process. In the past few years, more contracts have been awarded through some form of competitive bidding. Increased competition also has lowered profit margins of successful projects. The Company believes that the power marketing business represents an opportunity to take advantage of growing competition in the electric power industry. The Company also believes that the power marketing business will be highly competitive.
The demand for power in the United States traditionally has been met by utilities constructing large-scale electric generating plants under rate-based regulation. The enactment of PURPA in 1978 spawned the growth of the independent power industry, which expanded rapidly in the 1980s. The initial independent power producers were an entrepreneurial group of cogenerators and small power producers who recognized the potential business opportunities offered by PURPA. This initial group of independents was later joined by larger, better capitalized companies, such as subsidiaries of fuel supply companies, engineering companies, equipment manufacturers and affiliates of other industrial companies. In addition, a number of regulated utilities have created subsidiaries (known as utility affiliates) that compete with independent power producers. Some independent power producers specialize in market "niches," such as a specific technology or fuel (e.g., gas-fired cogeneration, geothermal, hydroelectric, refuse-to-energy, wind, solar, coal and wood), or a specific region of the country where they believe they have a market advantage. The Company presently conducts its operations primarily in the United States and concentrates on gas-fired and geothermal cogeneration plants.
The Company is the second largest producer of geothermal energy in the United States. Although the Company is an established leader in the geothermal power industry and has been rapidly growing, most of the Company's competitors have significantly greater capital, financial and operational resources.
Recent amendments to PUHCA made by the Energy Policy Act of 1992 are likely to increase the number of competitors in the independent power industry by reducing certain restrictions currently applicable to certain projects that are not QFs under PURPA. However, the recent amendments also should make it simpler for the Company to develop new projects itself, for example, by enabling the Company to develop large, gas-fired generation projects without the necessity of locating its projects in the vicinity of a steam host or otherwise finding a steam host to accept the useful thermal output required of a cogeneration facility under PURPA.
EMPLOYEES
As of December 31, 1996, the Company employed 254 people. None of the Company's employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and the Company has never experienced a work stoppage, strike or labor dispute. The Company considers relations with its employees to be good.
RISK FACTORS
High Leverage
The Company is highly leveraged as a result of outstanding indebtedness of the Company and non-recourse debt financing of certain of the Company's subsidiaries incurred to finance the acquisition and development of power generation facilities. As of December 31, 1996, the Company's total consolidated indebtedness was $601.1 million, its total consolidated assets were $1.0 billion and its stockholders' equity was $203.1 million. The ability of the Company to meet its debt service obligations and to repay outstanding indebtedness according to its terms will be dependent primarily upon the performance of the power generation facilities in which the Company has an interest.
The Indenture dated as of May 16, 1996 (the "10 1/2% Indenture") relating to the 10 1/2% Senior Notes Due 2006 and the Indenture dated as of February 17, 1994 (the "9 1/4% Indenture") relating to the Company's 9 1/4% Senior Notes Due 2004 (the "9 1/4% Senior Notes") (collectively, the "Indentures" and the "Senior Notes") contain certain restrictive covenants. Such restrictions affect, and in many respects significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, the ability of the Company or its subsidiaries or such other entities, as the case may be, to incur indebtedness, make prepayments of certain indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, create liens, sell assets and engage in mergers and consolidations. The Indentures also contain provisions that require the Company, in the event of a Change of Control Triggering Event (as such term is defined in the Indentures), to make an offer to purchase the Senior Notes. There can be no assurance that the Company will have the financial resources necessary to purchase the Senior Notes upon a Change of Control (as such term is defined in the Indentures). Such Change of Control provisions contained in the Indentures may not be waived by the Board of Directors of the Company.
The Company believes that, based on current levels of operations and anticipated growth, cash flow from operations, together with other available sources of funds, including borrowings under the Company's existing borrowing arrangements, will be adequate to make required payments of principal and interest on the Company's debt, including the Senior Notes, and to enable the Company to comply with the terms of its debt agreements, although there can be no assurance that this will be the case. If the Company is unable to comply with the terms of its debt agreements and fails to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, the Company may be required to refinance all or a portion of its existing debt or to obtain additional financing. There can be no assurance that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained, particularly in view of the Company's high levels of debt and the debt incurrence restrictions under existing debt agreements. If cash flow is insufficient and no such refinancing or additional financing is available, the Company may be forced to default on its debt obligations. In the event of a default under the terms of any of the indebtedness of the Company, subject to the terms of such indebtedness, the obligees thereunder would be permitted to accelerate the maturity of such obligations, which could cause defaults under other obligations of the Company.
Possible Unavailability of Financing
Each power generation facility acquired or developed by the Company will require substantial capital investment. The Company's ability to arrange financing and the cost of such financing are dependent upon numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, conditions in energy markets, regulatory developments, credit availability from banks or other lenders, investor confidence in the industry and the Company, the continued success of the Company's current facilities, and provisions of tax and securities laws that are conducive to raising capital. There can be no assurance that financing for new facilities will be available to the Company on acceptable terms in the future. In addition, there can be no assurance that all required governmental permits and approvals for the Company's new or acquired facilities will be obtained, that the Company will be able to obtain favorable power sales agreements and adequate financing, or that the Company will be successful in the development of power generation facilities in the future. Historically, the Company has been successful in obtaining debt financing for its facilities and had relied on Electrowatt Ltd. ("Electrowatt"), formerly the Company's sole stockholder, to provide funding for a substantial portion of its facility equity commitments. Over the past few years, the Company has maintained a $50.0 million credit facility with Credit Suisse (the "Credit Suisse Credit Facility"), which was arranged for the Company by Electrowatt. In connection with the Company's initial public offering of Common Stock in September 1996 (the "Common Stock Offering"), Electrowatt sold all of its shares of Common Stock of the Company and, as a result, the Company will no longer be able to rely on Electrowatt for financing. Upon the completion of the Common Stock Offering, the Credit Suisse Credit Facility was terminated.
On September 25, 1996, the Company entered into a $50.0 million three-year revolving credit facility with The Bank of Nova Scotia (the "Bank of Nova Scotia Credit Facility"). The Bank of Nova Scotia Credit Facility contains certain restrictions that significantly limit or prohibit, among other things, the ability of the Company or its subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, make prepayments of certain indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, create liens, sell assets and engage in mergers and consolidations.
The Company's power generation facilities have been financed using a variety of leveraged financing structures, primarily consisting of non-recourse debt and lease obligations. As of December 31, 1996, the Company had approximately $601.1 million of total consolidated indebtedness, of which approximately 51% represented non-recourse subsidiary debt. Each non-recourse debt and lease obligation is structured to be fully paid out of cash flow provided by the facility or facilities, the assets of which (together with pledges of stock or partnership interests in the entity owning the facility) collateralize such obligations, without any claim against the Company's general corporate funds. Such leveraged financing permits the development of larger facilities, but also increases the risk to the Company that its interest in a particular facility could be impaired or that fluctuations in revenues could adversely affect the Company's ability to meet its lease or debt obligations. The significant debt collateralized by the interests of the Company in each operating facility reduces the liquidity of such assets since any sale or transfer of a facility would be subject both to the lien securing the facility indebtedness and to transfer restrictions in the financing agreements. While the Company intends to utilize non-recourse or lease financing when appropriate, there can be no assurance that market conditions and other factors will permit the same limited equity investment by the Company or the same substantially non-recourse nature of financings for future facilities. In the event of a default under a financing agreement, and assuming the Company or the other equity investors in a facility are unable or choose not to cure such default within applicable cure periods, if any, the lenders or lessors would generally have rights to the facility, any related geothermal resource or natural gas reserves, related contracts and cash flows and all licenses and permits necessary to operate the facility. In the event of foreclosure after such a default, the Company might not retain any interest in such facility. The Company does not believe the existence of non-recourse or lease financing will materially affect its ability to continue to borrow funds in the future in order to finance new facilities. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will continue to be able to obtain the financing required to develop its power facilities on terms satisfactory to the Company.
The Company has from time to time guaranteed certain obligations of its subsidiaries and other affiliates. There can be no assurance that, in respect of any financings of facilities in the future, lenders or lessors will not
require the Company to guarantee the indebtedness of such future facilities, rendering the Company's general corporate funds vulnerable in the event of a default by such facility or related subsidiary. If the lenders or lessors were to require such guarantees, and the Company were unable to incur indebtedness in respect of such guarantees under the restrictions on indebtedness (including guarantees) contained in the Indentures, the Company's ability to fund new facilities could be adversely affected. The Indentures do not limit the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to incur non-recourse or lease financing for investment in new facilities.
Calpine Geysers Company, L.P. ("CGC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Calpine, owns the West Ford Flat Power Plant, the Bear Canyon Power Plant, the PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields and the SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields. Calpine Greenleaf Corporation ("Calpine Greenleaf"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Calpine, owns the Greenleaf 1 and 2 Power Plants. The non-recourse facility financing of each of CGC and Calpine Greenleaf is collateralized by all of the assets and properties of each of the facilities and steam fields owned by such subsidiary. In the event of a reduction in revenue derived from one or more of these facilities or steam fields which results in a failure to make any payments on, or if such subsidiary otherwise defaults in its obligations under the terms of, its non-recourse project financing, the lenders would be entitled to foreclose on all of the assets of such subsidiary, including the assets pertaining to each such facility and steam field.
Risks Related to the Development and Operation of Geothermal Energy Resources
The development and operation of geothermal energy resources are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties similar to those experienced in the development of oil and gas resources. The successful exploitation of a geothermal energy resource ultimately depends upon the heat content of the extractable fluids, the geology of the reservoir, the total amount of recoverable reserves and operational factors relating to the extraction of fluids, including operating expenses, energy price levels and capital expenditure requirements relating primarily to the drilling of new wells. In connection with the development of a project, the Company estimates the productivity of the geothermal resource and the expected decline in such productivity. The productivity of a geothermal resource may decline more than anticipated, resulting in insufficient recoverable reserves being available for sustained generation of the electrical power capacity desired. An incorrect estimate by the Company or an unexpected decline in productivity could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.
Geothermal reservoirs are highly complex, and, as a result, there exist numerous uncertainties in determining the extent of the reservoirs and the quantity and productivity of the steam reserves. Reservoir engineering is an inexact process of estimating underground accumulations of steam or fluids that cannot be measured in any precise way, and depends significantly on the quantity and accuracy of available data. As a result, the estimates of other reservoir specialists may differ materially from those of the Company. Estimates of reserves are generally revised over time on the basis of the results of drilling, testing and production that occur after the original estimate was prepared. While the Company has extensive experience in the operation and development of geothermal energy resources and in preparing such estimates, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully manage the development and operation of its geothermal reservoirs or that the Company will accurately estimate the quantity or productivity of its steam reserves.
Impact of Avoided Cost Pricing; Energy Price Fluctuations
Nine of the existing power plants in which the Company has an interest sell electricity to PG&E under separate long-term power sales agreements. Each of these agreements provides for both capacity payments and energy payments for the term of the agreement. During the initial ten-year period of certain of the agreements, PG&E pays a fixed price for each unit of electrical energy according to schedules set forth in such agreements. The fixed price periods under these power sales agreements expire at various times in 1998 through 2000. After the fixed price periods expire, while the basis for the capacity and capacity bonus payments under these power sales agreements remains the same, the energy payments adjust to PG&E's then prevailing avoided cost of energy, which is determined and published from time to time by the CPUC. The term "avoided cost" refers to the incremental costs that an electric utility would incur to produce or purchase an amount of power equivalent to that purchased from qualifying facilities (as defined under PURPA). The
currently prevailing avoided cost of energy is substantially lower than the fixed energy prices under these power sales agreements and is generally expected to remain so. While avoided cost does not affect capacity payments under the power sales agreements, in the event that the avoided cost of energy does not increase significantly, the Company's energy revenue under these power sales agreements would be materially reduced at the expiration of the fixed price period. Such reduction could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. The Company cannot accurately predict the likely level of avoided cost energy prices at the expiration of the fixed price periods. Prices paid for the steam delivered by the Company's steam fields are based on a formula that partially reflects the price levels of nuclear and fossil fuels, and, therefore, a reduction in the price levels of such fuels may reduce revenue under the steam sales agreements for the steam fields.
Impact of Curtailment
Each of the Company's power and steam sales agreements contains curtailment provisions pursuant to which the purchasers of energy or steam are entitled to reduce the number of hours of energy or amount of steam purchased thereunder. Curtailment provisions are customary in power and steam sales agreements. During 1996, certain of the Company's power generation facilities experienced maximum curtailment primarily as a result of low gas prices and a high degree of precipitation during the period, which resulted in higher levels of energy generation by hydroelectric power facilities that supply electricity. In limited circumstances, energy production from third party geothermal power plants may be curtailed, which would reduce deliveries of steam by the Company under the steam sales agreements. The Company expects maximum curtailment during 1997 under its power sales agreements for certain of its facilities, and there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience curtailment in the future. In the event of such curtailment, the Company's results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
Power Project Development and Acquisition Risks
The development of power generation facilities is subject to substantial risks. In connection with the development of a power generation facility, the Company must generally obtain power and/or steam sales agreements, governmental permits and approvals, fuel supply and transportation agreements, sufficient equity capital and debt financing, electrical transmission agreements, site agreements and construction contracts, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in doing so. In addition, project development is subject to certain environmental, engineering and construction risks relating to cost-overruns, delays and performance. Although the Company may attempt to minimize the financial risks in the development of a project by securing a favorable long-term power sales agreement, entering into power marketing transactions, obtaining all required governmental permits and approvals and arranging adequate financing prior to the commencement of construction, the development of a power project may require the Company to expend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting and legal and other expenses before it can be determined whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or financeable. If the Company were unable to complete the development of a facility, it would generally not be able to recover its investment in such a facility.
The process for obtaining initial environmental, siting and other governmental permits and approvals is complicated and lengthy, often taking more than one year, and is subject to significant uncertainties. As a result of competition, it may be difficult to obtain a power sales agreement for a proposed project, and the prices offered in new power sales agreements for both electric capacity and energy may be less than the prices in prior agreements.
The Company has grown substantially in recent years as a result of acquisitions of interests in power generation facilities and steam fields such as the Transactions. The Company believes that although the domestic power industry is undergoing consolidation and that significant acquisition opportunities are available, the Company is likely to confront significant competition for acquisition opportunities. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will continue to identify attractive acquisition opportunities at favorable prices or, to the extent that any opportunities are identified, that the Company will be able to consummate such acquisitions.
Start-Up Risks
The commencement of operation of a newly constructed power plant or steam field involves many risks, including start-up problems, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. New plants have no operating history and may employ recently developed and technologically complex equipment. Insurance is maintained to protect against certain of these risks, warranties are generally obtained for limited periods relating to the construction of each project and its equipment in varying degrees, and contractors and equipment suppliers are obligated to meet certain performance levels. Such insurance, warranties or performance guarantees may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses and, as a result, a project may be unable to fund principal and interest payments under its financing obligations and may operate at a loss. A default under such a financing obligation could result in the Company losing its interest in such power generation facility or steam field.
In addition, power sales agreements, which are typically entered into with a utility early in the development phase of a project, often enable the utility to terminate such agreement, or to retain security posted as liquidated damages, in the event that a project fails to achieve commercial operation or certain operating levels by specified dates or fails to make certain specified payments. In the event such a termination right is exercised, a project may not commence generating revenues, the default provisions in a financing agreement may be triggered (rendering such debt immediately due and payable) and the project may be rendered insolvent as a result.
General Operating Risks
The Company currently operates all of the power generation facilities and steam fields in which it has an interest, except for two steam fields. The continued operation of power generation facilities and steam fields involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines, pipelines or other equipment or processes and performance below expected levels of output or efficiency. To date, the Company's power generation facilities have operated at an average availability in excess of 97%, and although from time to time the Company's power generation facilities and steam fields have experienced certain equipment breakdowns or failures, such breakdowns or failures have not had a material adverse effect on the operation of such facilities or on the Company's results of operations. Although the Company's facilities contain certain redundancies and back-up mechanisms, there can be no assurance that any such breakdown or failure would not prevent the affected facility or steam field from performing under applicable power and/or steam sales agreements. In addition, although insurance is maintained to protect against certain of these operating risks, the proceeds of such insurance may not be adequate to cover lost revenues or increased expenses, and, as a result, the entity owning such power generation facility or steam field may be unable to service principal and interest payments under its financing obligations and may operate at a loss. A default under such a financing obligation could result in the Company losing its interest in such power generation facility or steam field.
Dependence on Third Parties
The nature of the Company's power generation facilities is such that each facility generally relies on one power or steam sales agreement with a single electric utility customer for substantially all, if not all, of such facility's revenue over the life of the project. During 1996, approximately 86% and 7% of the Company's total revenue was attributable to revenue received pursuant to power and steam sales agreements with PG&E and Sacramento Municipal Utility District ("SMUD"), respectively. The power and steam sales agreements are generally long-term agreements, covering the sale of electricity or steam for initial terms of 20 or 30 years. However, the loss of any one power or steam sales agreement with any of these utility customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. In addition, any material failure by any utility customer to fulfill its obligations under a power or steam sales agreement could have a material adverse effect on the cash flow available to the Company and, as a result, on the Company's results of operations. During 1996, an additional 4% of the Company's revenue was attributable to operating and maintenance services performed by the Company for power generation facilities that sell electricity to PG&E.
Furthermore, each power generation facility may depend on a single or limited number of entities to purchase thermal energy, or to supply or transport natural gas to such facility. The failure of any one utility customer, steam host, gas supplier or gas transporter to fulfill its contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on a power project and on the Company's business and results of operations.
International Investments
The Company has made an investment in the Cerro Prieto geothermal steam fields located in Mexico and intends to pursue investments primarily in Latin America and Southeast Asia. Such investments are subject to risks and uncertainties relating to the political, social and economic structures of those countries. Risks specifically related to investments in non-United States projects may include risks of fluctuations in currency valuation, currency inconvertibility, expropriation and confiscatory taxation, increased regulation and approval requirements and governmental policies limiting returns to foreign investors.
Power Marketing Business
It is part of the Company's strategy to continue to develop an integrated nationwide power marketing business to market power generated both by the Company's generation facilities and power generated by third parties. However, the power marketing industry is only in its early stages of development, and there are no assurances that the industry will develop in such a way as to permit the Company to achieve these goals. Furthermore, the Company has only recently commenced its power marketing business, and there can be no assurance that its power marketing strategy will be successful or that the Company's goals will be achieved.
Government Regulation
The Company's activities are subject to complex and stringent energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations. The construction and operation of power generation facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from appropriate federal, state and local governmental agencies, as well as compliance with environmental protection legislation and other regulations. While the Company believes that it has obtained the requisite approvals for its existing operations and that its business is operated in accordance with applicable laws, the Company remains subject to a varied and complex body of laws and regulations that both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce. There can be no assurance that existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws and regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to the Company that may have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or results of operations, nor can there be any assurance that the Company will be able to obtain all necessary licenses, permits, approvals and certificates for proposed projects or that completed facilities will comply with all applicable permit conditions, statutes or regulations. In addition, regulatory compliance for the construction of new facilities is a costly and time consuming process, and intricate and changing environmental and other regulatory requirements may necessitate substantial expenditures to obtain permits and may create a significant risk of expensive delays or significant loss of value in a project if the project is unable to function as planned due to changing requirements or local opposition.
The Company's operations are subject to the provisions of various energy laws and regulations, including PURPA, PUHCA, and state and local regulations. PUHCA provides for the extensive regulation of public utility holding companies and their subsidiaries. PURPA provides to QFs and owners of QFs certain exemptions from certain federal and state regulations, including rate and financial regulations.
Under present federal law, the Company is not and will not be subject to regulation as a holding company under PUHCA as long as the power plants in which it has an interest are QFs under PURPA or are subject to another exemption. In order to be a QF, a facility must be not more than 50% owned by an electric utility or electric utility holding company. A QF that is a cogeneration facility must produce not only electricity, but also useful thermal energy for use in an industrial or commercial process or heating or cooling applications in certain proportions to the facility's total energy output, and it must meet certain energy efficiency standards. Therefore, loss of a thermal energy customer could jeopardize a cogeneration facility's QF status. All geothermal power plants up to 80 megawatts that meet PURPA's ownership requirements and certain other
standards are considered QFs. If one of the power plants in which the Company has an interest were to lose its QF status and not otherwise receive a PUHCA exemption, the project subsidiary or partnership in which the Company has an interest owning or leasing that plant could become a public utility company, which could subject the Company to significant federal, state and local laws, including rate regulation and regulation as a public utility holding company under PUHCA. This loss of QF status, which may be prospective or retroactive, in turn, could cause all of the Company's other power plants to lose QF status because, under FERC regulations, a QF cannot be owned by an electric utility or electric utility holding company. In addition, a loss of QF status could, depending on the power sales agreement, allow the power purchaser to cease taking and paying for electricity or to seek refunds of past amounts paid and thus could cause the loss of some or all contract revenues or otherwise impair the value of a project and could trigger defaults under provisions of the applicable project contracts and financing agreements (rendering such debt immediately due and payable). If a power purchaser ceased taking and paying for electricity or sought to obtain refunds of past amounts paid, there can be no assurance that the costs incurred in connection with the project could be recovered through sales to other purchasers.
Currently, Congress is considering proposed legislation that would amend PURPA by eliminating the requirement that utilities purchase electricity from QFs at avoided costs. The Company does not know whether such legislation will be passed or what form it may take. The Company believes that if any such legislation is passed, it would apply to new projects. As a result, although such legislation may adversely affect the Company's ability to develop new projects, the Company believes it would not affect the Company's existing QFs. There can be no assurance, however, that any legislation passed would not adversely impact the Company's existing projects.
Many states are implementing or considering regulatory initiatives designed to increase competition in the domestic power generation industry. In a December 20, 1995 policy decision, the CPUC outlined a new market structure that would provide for a competitive power generation industry and direct access to generation for all consumers within five years. As part of its policy decision, the CPUC indicated that power sales agreements of existing QFs would be honored. The Company cannot predict the final form or timing of the proposed restructuring and the impact, if any, that such restructuring would have on the Company's existing business or results of operations.
Seismic Disturbances
Areas in which the Company operates and is developing many of its geothermal and gas-fired projects are subject to frequent low-level seismic disturbances, and more significant seismic disturbances are possible. While the Company's existing power generation facilities are built to withstand relatively significant levels of seismic disturbances, and the Company believes it maintains adequate insurance protection, there can be no assurance that earthquake, property damage or business interruption insurance will be adequate to cover all potential losses sustained in the event of serious seismic disturbances or that such insurance will continue to be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms.
Availability of Natural Gas
To date, the Company's fuel acquisition strategy has included various combinations of Company-owned gas reserves, gas prepayment contracts and short-, medium- and long-term supply contracts. In its gas supply arrangements, the Company attempts to match the fuel cost with the fuel component included in the facility's power sales agreements, in order to minimize a project's exposure to fuel price risk. The Company believes that there will be adequate supplies of natural gas available at reasonable prices for each of its facilities when current gas supply agreements expire. There can be no assurance, however, that gas supplies will be available for the full term of the facilities' power sales agreements, or that gas prices will not increase significantly. If gas is not available, or if gas prices increase above the fuel component of the facilities' power sales agreements, there could be a material adverse impact on the Company's net revenues.
Competition
The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and the Company encounters competition from utilities, industrial companies and other power producers. In recent years, there has been increasing competition in an effort to obtain new power sales agreements, and this competition has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices. In this regard, many utilities often engage in "competitive bid" solicitations to satisfy new capacity demands. This competition adversely affects the ability of the Company to obtain power sales agreements and the price paid for electricity. There also is increasing competition between electric utilities, particularly in California where the CPUC and the California legislature have launched an initiative designed to give all electric consumers the ability to choose between competing suppliers of electricity. This competition has put pressure on electric utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased electricity, and increasing competition in the future will increase this pressure.
Dependence on Senior Management
The Company's success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of its senior management. The loss of the services of one or more members of the Company's senior management could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and development. To date, the Company generally has been successful in retaining the services of its senior management.
Quarterly Fluctuations; Seasonality
The Company's quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so in the future as a result of a number of factors, including but not limited to the timing and size of acquisitions, the completion of development projects, the timing and amount of curtailment, and variations in levels of production. Furthermore, the majority of capacity payments under certain of the Company's power sales agreements are received during the months of May through October.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company's principal executive office is located in San Jose, California under a lease that expires in June 2001. The Company also maintains a regional office in Santa Rosa, California under a lease that expires in 1999.
The Company, through its ownership of CGC and Thermal Power Company, has leasehold interests in 109 leases comprising 27,263 acres of federal, state and private geothermal resource lands in The Geysers area in northern California. These leases comprise its West Ford Flat Power Plant, Bear Canyon Power Plant, PG&E Unit 13 and Unit 16 Steam Fields, SMUDGEO #1 Steam Fields and Thermal Power Company's 25% undivided interest in the Thermal Power Company Steam Fields which are operated by Union Oil. The Company has subleasehold interests in three leases comprising 6,825 acres of federal geothermal resource lands in the Coso area in central California. In the Glass Mountain and Medicine Lake areas in northern California, the Company holds leasehold interests in 18 leases comprising approximately 25,028 acres of federal geothermal resource lands.
In general, under the leases, the Company has the exclusive right to drill for, produce and sell geothermal resources from these properties and the right to use the surface for all related purposes. Each lease requires the payment of annual rent until commercial quantities of geothermal resources are established. After such time, the leases require the payment of minimum advance royalties or other payments until production commences, at which time production royalties are payable. Such royalties and other payments are payable to landowners, state and federal agencies and others, and vary widely as to the particular lease. The leases are generally for initial terms varying from 10 to 20 years or for so long as geothermal resources are produced and sold. Certain of the leases contain drilling or other exploratory work requirements. In certain cases, if a requirement is not fulfilled, the lease may be terminated and in other cases additional payments may be required. The Company believes that its leases are valid and that it has complied with all the requirements and conditions material to their continued effectiveness. A number of the Company's leases for undeveloped properties may expire in any given year. Before leases expire, the Company performs geological evaluations in an effort to determine the
resource potential of the underlying properties. No assurance can be given that the Company will decide to renew any expiring leases.
The Company, through its ownership of the Greenleaf 1 Power Plant, owns 77 acres in Sutter County, California.
See "Item 1. Business -- Description of Facilities" for a description of the other material properties leased or owned by the projects in which the Company has ownership interests. The Company believes that its properties are adequate for its current operations.
ITEM 3.