Item 2. “Properties.”
Set forth below is certain information regarding our operating power plants and plants under construction as of March 24, 2004.
Operating Power Plants
(1)
Generation MWh is shown here as 100% of each plant’s gross generation in megawatt hours (“MWh”).
(2)
This facility is presented here only to state the facility’s generation in MWh for 2003. This facility was sold in January 2004. See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the sale of this facility.
(3)
This facility is presented here only to state the facility’s generation in MWh through November 26, 2003, the date it was sold. See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the sale of this facility.
Projects Under Construction (All gas-fired)
*
Expansion project.
ACQUISITIONS OF POWER PROJECTS AND PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
We have extensive experience in the development and acquisition of power generation projects. We have historically focused principally on the development and acquisition of interests in gas-fired and geothermal power projects, although we may also consider projects that utilize other power generation technologies. We have significant expertise in a variety of power generation technologies and have substantial capabilities in each aspect of the development and acquisition process, including design, engineering, procurement, construction management, fuel and resource acquisition and management, power marketing, financing and operations.
As indicated in the Strategy Section, our development and acquisition activities have been greatly scaled back, for the indefinite future, to focus on liquidity and operational priorities.
Acquisitions
We may consider the acquisition of an interest in operating projects as well as projects under development where we would assume responsibility for completing the development of the project. In the acquisition of power generation facilities, we generally seek to acquire 100% ownership of facilities that offer us attractive opportunities for earnings growth, and that permit us to assume sole responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the facility. In evaluating and selecting a project for acquisition, we consider a variety of factors, including the type of power generation technology utilized, the location of the project, the terms of any existing power or thermal energy sales agreements, gas supply and transportation agreements and wheeling agreements, the quantity and quality of any geothermal or other natural resource involved, and the actual condition of the physical plant. In addition, we assess the past performance of an operating project and prepare financial projections to determine the profitability of the project. Acquisition activity is dependent on the availability of financing on attractive terms and the expectation of returns that meet our long-term requirements.
Although our preference is to own 100% of the power plants we acquire or develop, there are situations when we take less than 100% ownership. Reasons why we may take less than a 100% interest in a power plant may include, but are not limited to: (a) our acquisitions of other independent power producers such as Cogeneration Corporation of America in 1999 and SkyGen Energy LLC in 2000 in which minority interest projects were included in the portfolio of assets owned by the acquired entities (Grays Ferry Power Plant (40% now owned by Calpine) and Androscoggin Energy Center (32.3% now owned by Calpine), respectively); (b) opportunities to co-invest with non-regulated subsidiaries of regulated electric utilities, which under PURPA are restricted to 50% ownership of cogeneration qualifying facilities; and (c) opportunities to invest in merchant power projects with partners who bring marketing, funding, permitting or other resources that add value to a project, for example, Acadia Energy Center in Louisiana (50% owned by Calpine and 50% owned by Cleco Midstream Resources, an affiliate of Cleco Corporation). None of our equity investment projects have nominal carrying values as a result of material recurring losses. Further, there is no history of impairment in any of these investments.
Projects Under Construction
The development and construction of power generation projects involves numerous elements, including evaluating and selecting development opportunities, designing and engineering the project, obtaining power sales agreements in some cases, acquiring necessary land rights, permits and fuel resources, obtaining financing, procuring equipment and managing construction. We intend to focus on completing projects already in construction and starting new projects only when financing is available and attractive returns are expected.
Deer Park Energy Center. In March 2001 we announced plans to build, own and operate a 1,019-megawatt, natural gas-fired energy center in Deer Park, Texas. The Deer Park Energy Center supplies steam to Shell Chemical Company, and electric power generated at the facility is sold on the wholesale market. Construction began in mid-2001. The first and second phases of the project entered commercial operation in June 2003 and the final phase is expected to begin commercial operation in June 2004.
Hillabee Energy Center. On February 24, 2000, we announced plans to build, own and operate the Hillabee Energy Center, a 770-megawatt, natural gas-fired cogeneration facility in Tallapoosa County, Alabama. Construction began in mid-2001, and we expect commercial operation of the facility will commence in spring 2006.
Pastoria Energy Center. In April 2001 we acquired the rights to develop the 769-megawatt Pastoria Energy Center, a combined-cycle project planned for Kern County, California. Construction began in mid-2001, and commercial operation is scheduled to begin in the fall of 2004 for phase one and in mid-2005 for phase two.
Fremont Energy Center. On May 23, 2000, we announced plans to build, own and operate the Fremont Energy Center, a 700-megawatt natural gas-fired electricity generating facility to be located near Fremont, Ohio. Commercial operation is expected to commence in the summer of 2006.
Columbia Energy Center. On September 25, 2001, we announced plans to construct the new 641-megawatt Columbia Energy Center, a natural gas-fired cogeneration facility located on property leased from Voridian (formerly Eastman Chemical Company) in Calhoun County, S.C. The facility will sell electricity to the wholesale power market and will supply thermal energy to Voridian. Commercial operation is expected to commence in the spring of 2004.
Riverside Energy Center. On December 18, 2002, we announced that construction of the Riverside Energy Center, a 602-megawatt natural gas-fired electricity generating facility had begun in Beloit, Wisconsin. We anticipate commercial operation of the facility to begin in the summer of 2004.
Metcalf Energy Center. On April 30, 1999, we submitted an Application for Certification with the California Energy Commission (“CEC”) to build, own and operate the Metcalf Energy Center, a 602-megawatt natural gas-fired electricity generating facility located in San Jose, California. The CEC permit was approved on September 21, 2001. Construction of the facility began in June 2002, and commercial operation is anticipated to commence in the summer of 2005.
Osprey Energy Center. On January 11, 2000, we announced plans to build, own and operate the Osprey Energy Center, a 609-megawatt, natural gas-fired cogeneration energy center near the city of Auburndale, Florida. Construction commenced in the fall 2001 and commercial operation of the facility is scheduled to begin in the spring of 2004. Upon commercial operation, the Osprey Energy Center will supply electric power to Tampa, Florida-based Seminole Electric Cooperative, Inc. for a period of 16 years.
Washington Parish Energy Center. On January 26, 2001, we announced the acquisition of the development rights from Cogentrix, an independent power company based in North Carolina, for the 565-megawatt Washington Parish Energy Center, located near Bogalusa, Louisiana. We are managing construction of the facility, which began in January 2001, and will operate the facility when it enters commercial operation, which is anticipated to be in the summer of 2006.
Otay Mesa Energy Center. On July 10, 2001, we acquired Otay Mesa Generating Company, LLC and the associated development rights including a license from the California Energy Commission. The 593-megawatt facility is located in southern San Diego County, California. Construction began in 2001. In October 2003 we signed a term sheet setting forth the principal terms and conditions for a ten-year, 570-megawatt power sales agreement with San Diego Gas & Electric (“SDG&E”). Under the final agreement, we will supply electricity to SDG&E from the Otay Mesa Energy Center. Power deliveries are scheduled to begin in 2007.
Rocky Mountain Energy Center. In August 2002 we commenced construction of the 601-megawatt, natural gas-fired Rocky Mountain Energy Center in Weld County, Colorado. We will sell the output of the facility to Public Service Co. of Colorado under the terms of a ten-year tolling agreement. Commercial operation of the facility is expected to commence in the summer of 2004.
Goldendale Energy Center. In April 2001 we acquired the rights to develop a 271-megawatt combined-cycle energy center located in Goldendale, Washington. Construction of the Goldendale Energy Center began in the summer of 2001 and commercial operation is expected to commence in the summer of 2004. Energy generated by the facility will be sold directly into the Northwest Power Pool.
Fox Energy Center. In 2003 we acquired the fully permitted 305-megawatt Fox Energy Center in Kaukauna, Wisconsin, which will be used to fulfill an existing contract with Wisconsin Public Service. Commercial operation is expected to begin in the summer of 2005.
OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES
In 1997 we began an equity gas strategy to diversify the gas sources for our natural gas-fired power plants by purchasing Montis Niger, Inc., a gas production and pipeline company operating primarily in the Sacramento Basin in northern California. We currently supply the majority of the fuel requirements for the Greenleaf 1 and 2 Power Plants from these reserves. In October 1999, we purchased Sheridan Energy, Inc. (“Sheridan”), a natural gas exploration and production company operating in northern California and the Gulf Coast region. The Sheridan acquisition provided the initial management team and operational infrastructure to evaluate and acquire oil and gas reserves to keep pace with our growth in gas-fired power plants. In December 1999, we added Vintage Petroleum, Inc.’s interest in the Rio Vista Gas Unit and related areas, representing primarily natural gas reserves located in the Sacramento Basin in northern California. Sheridan was merged into Calpine in April 2000 and Calpine Natural Gas L.P. (“CNGLP”) was established to manage our oil and gas properties in the U.S. Additionally, we own a 25% interest in CNG Trust, which has proved reserves of approximately 72 Bcfe (18 Bcfe, net to Calpine’s equity interest). We are currently capable of producing, net to Calpine’s interest, 215 MMcfe of natural gas per day, and CNG Trust total production, net of royalties, is currently 25 MMcfe (6.2 MMcfe net to Calpine’s interest) of natural gas per day. Calpine has the first right to purchase all of CNG Trust’s production at market prices.
The focus of the equity gas program has been on acquisitions in strategic markets where we are developing low-cost natural gas supplies and proprietary pipeline systems in support of our natural gas-fired power plants. In conjunction with these efforts we acquired various gas assets and gas companies in 2001 and
2000. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding the 2001 acquisitions.
In 2002 and 2003 certain non-strategic divestments were completed to further focus operations on gas production and to enhance liquidity. These divestments are discussed in detail under Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
As a result of our oil and gas acquisition, divestment and drilling program activity, equity equivalent net production from continuing operations was approximately 260 MMcfe/day at December 31, 2003, enough to fuel approximately 2,300 megawatts of our power plant fleet, assuming an average capacity factor of 70%.
MARKETING, HEDGING, OPTIMIZATION, AND TRADING ACTIVITIES
Most of the electric power generated by our plants is transferred to our marketing and risk management unit, CES, which sells it to load-serving entities (e.g., utilities) industrial and large retail end users, and to other third parties (e.g., power trading and marketing companies). Because a sufficiently liquid market does not exist for electricity financial instruments (typically, exchange and over-the-counter traded contracts that net settle rather than entail physical delivery) at most of the locations where we sell power, CES also enters into incremental physical purchase and sale transactions as part of its hedging, balancing, and optimization activities.
The hedging, balancing, and optimization activities that we engage in are directly related to exposures that arise from our ownership and operation of power plants and gas reserves and are designed to protect or enhance our “spark spread” (the difference between our fuel cost and the revenue we receive for our electric generation). In many of these transactions CES purchases and resells power and gas in contracts with third parties.
We utilize derivatives, which are defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities” to include many physical commodity contracts and commodity financial instruments such as exchange-traded swaps and forward contracts, to optimize the returns that we are able to achieve from our power and gas assets. From time to time we have entered into contracts considered energy trading contracts under Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 02-3, “Issues Related to Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities.” However, our risk managers have low capital at risk and value at risk limits for energy trading, and our risk management policy limits, at any given time, our net sales of power to our generation capacity and limits our net purchases of gas to our fuel consumption requirements on a total portfolio basis. This model is markedly different from that of companies that engage in significant commodity trading operations that are unrelated to underlying physical assets. Derivative commodity instruments are accounted for under the requirements of SFAS No. 133. The EITF reached a consensus under EITF Issue No. 02-3 that gains and losses on derivative instruments within the scope of SFAS No. 133 should be shown net in the income statement if the derivative instruments are held for trading purposes. In addition we present on a net basis certain types of hedging, balancing and optimization revenues and costs of revenue under EITF Issue No. 03-11, “Reporting Realized Gains and Losses on Derivative Instruments That Are Subject to FASB Statement No. 133 and Not “Held for Trading Purposes’ As Defined in EITF Issue No. 02-3: “Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities” (“EITF Issue No. 03-11”), which we adopted prospectively on October 1, 2003. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis - Impact of Recent Accounting Pronouncements” and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the effects of adopting this standard.
Following is a discussion of the types of electricity and gas hedging, balancing, optimization, and trading activities in which we engage.
Electricity Transactions
•
Electricity hedging transactions are entered into to reduce potential volatility in future results. An example of an electricity hedging transaction would be one in which we sell power at a fixed rate to allow us to predict the future revenues from our portfolio of generating plants. Hedging is a dynamic process; from time to time we adjust the extent to which our portfolio is hedged. An example of an electricity hedge adjusting transaction would be the purchase of power in the market to reduce the extent to which we had previously hedged our generation portfolio through fixed price power sales. To illustrate, suppose we had elected to hedge 65% of our portfolio of generation capacity for the following six months but then believed that prices for electricity were going to steadily move up during that same period. We might buy electricity on the open market to reduce our hedged position to, say, 50%. If electricity prices, do in fact increase, we might then sell electricity again to increase our hedged position back to the 65% level and generate additional margin.
•
Electricity balancing activities are typically short-term in nature and are done to make sure that sales commitments to deliver power are fulfilled. An example of an electricity balancing transaction would be where one of our generating plants has an unscheduled outage so we buy replacement power to deliver to a customer to meet our sales commitment.
•
Electricity optimization activity, also generally short-term in nature, is done to maximize our profit potential by executing the most profitable alternatives in the power markets. An example of an electricity optimization transaction would be fulfilling a power sales contract with power purchases from third parties instead of generating power when the market price for power is below the cost of generation. In all cases, optimization activity is associated with the operating flexibility in our systems of power plants, natural gas assets, and gas and power contracts. That flexibility provides us with alternatives to most profitably manage our portfolio.
•
Electricity trading activities are done with the purpose of profiting from movement in commodity prices or to transact business with customers in market areas where we do not have generating assets. An example of an electricity trading contract would be where we buy and sell electricity, typically with trading company counterparties, solely to profit from electricity price movements. We have engaged in limited activity of this type to date in terms of earnings impact. All such activity is done by CES, mostly through short-term contracts. Another example of an electricity trading contract would be one in which we transact with customers in market areas where we do not have generating assets, generally to develop market experience and customer relations in areas where we expect to have generation assets in the future. We have done a small number of such transactions to date.
Natural Gas Transactions
•
Gas hedging transactions are also entered into to reduce potential volatility in future results. An example of a gas hedging transaction would be where we purchase gas at a fixed rate to allow us to predict the future costs of fuel for our generating plants or conversely where we enter into a financial forward contract to essentially swap floating rate (indexed) gas for fixed price gas. Similar to electricity hedging, gas hedging is a dynamic process, and from time to time we adjust the extent to which our portfolio is hedged. To illustrate, suppose we had elected to hedge 65% of our gas requirements for our generation capacity for the next six months through fixed price gas purchases but then believed that prices for gas were going to steadily decline during that same period. We might sell fixed price gas on the open market to reduce our hedged gas position to 50%. If gas prices do in fact decrease, we might then buy fixed price gas again to increase our hedged position back to the 65% level and increase our margins.
•
Gas balancing activities are typically short-term in nature and are done to ensure that purchase commitments for gas are adjusted for changes in production schedules. An example of a gas balancing transaction would be where one of our generating plants has an unscheduled outage so we sell the gas that we had purchased for that plant to a third party.
•
Gas optimization activities are also generally short-term in nature and are done to maximize our profit potential by executing the most profitable alternatives in the gas markets. An example of gas optimization is selling our gas supply, not generating power, and fulfilling power sales contracts with power purchases from third parties, instead of generating power when market gas prices spike relative to our gas supply cost.
•
Gas trading activities are done with the purpose of profiting from movement in commodity prices. An example of gas trading contracts would be where we buy and sell gas, typically with a trading company counterparty, solely to profit from gas price movements or where we transact with customers in market areas where we do not have fuel consumption requirements. We have engaged in a limited level of this type of activity to date. All such activity is done by CES, mostly through short-term contracts.
In some instances economic hedges may not be designated as hedges for accounting purposes. The accounting treatment of our various risk management and trading activities is governed by SFAS No. 133, EITF Issue No. 02-3, as discussed above, and EITF Issue No. 03-11 which we adopted on October 1, 2003, and is discussed further in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. An example of an economic hedge that is not a hedge for accounting purposes would be a long-term fixed price electric sales contract that economically hedges us against the risk of falling electric prices, but which for accounting purposes is exempted from derivative accounting under SFAS No. 133 as a normal sale. For a further discussion of our derivative accounting methodology, see Item 7 - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Application of Critical Accounting Policies.”
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
We are subject to complex and stringent energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels in connection with the development, ownership and operation of our energy generation facilities. Federal laws and regulations govern transactions by electric and gas utility companies, the types of fuel which may be utilized by an electricity generating plant, the type of energy which may be produced by such a plant, the ownership of a plant, and access to and service on the transmission grid. In most instances, public utilities that serve retail customers are subject to rate regulation by the state’s related utility regulatory commission. A state utility regulatory commission is often primarily responsible for determining whether a public utility may recover the costs of wholesale electricity purchases or other supply-related activity through retail rates that the public utility may charge its customers. The state utility regulatory commission may, from time to time, impose restrictions or limitations on the manner in which a public utility may transact with wholesale power sellers, such as independent power producers. Under certain circumstances where specific exemptions are otherwise unavailable, state utility regulatory commissions may have broad jurisdiction over non-utility electric power plants. Energy producing projects also are subject to federal, state and local laws and administrative regulations which govern the emissions and other substances produced, discharged or disposed of by a plant and the geographical location, zoning, land use and operation of a plant. Applicable federal environmental laws typically have both state and local enforcement and implementation provisions. These environmental laws and regulations generally require that a wide variety of permits and other approvals be obtained before the commencement of construction or operation of an energy producing facility and that the facility then operate in compliance with such permits and approvals.
Federal Energy Regulation
PURPA
The enactment of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended (“PURPA”), and the adoption of regulations thereunder by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) provided incentives for the development of cogeneration facilities and small power production facilities (those utilizing renewable fuels and having a capacity of less than 80 megawatts).
A domestic electricity generating project must be a Qualifying Facility (“QF”) under FERC regulations in order to take advantage of certain rate and regulatory incentives provided by PURPA. PURPA exempts owners of QFs from the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended (“PUHCA”), and exempts QFs from most provisions of the Federal Power Act (“FPA”) and, except under certain limited circumstances, state laws concerning rate or financial regulation. These exemptions are important to us and our competitors. We believe that each of the electricity-generating projects in which we own an interest and which operates as a QF power producer meets or will meet the requirements under PURPA necessary for QF status. In some cases our projects have temporarily been rendered incapable of meeting such requirements (due, for example, to the loss of a thermal host) and we have sought waivers of the applicable QF requirements from FERC. In the past FERC has been willing to issue such waivers (which typically are for a one-or two-year period) where it can be shown that the project is expected to be able to meet the applicable QF requirements at the end of the waiver period; however, we cannot provide assurance that such waivers will in every case be granted.
PURPA provides two primary benefits to QFs. First, QFs generally are relieved of compliance with extensive federal and state regulations that control the financial structure of an electricity generating plant and the prices and terms on which electricity may be sold by the plant. Second, FERC’s regulations promulgated under PURPA require that electric utilities purchase electricity generated by QFs at a price based on the purchasing utility’s avoided cost, and that the utility sell back-up power to the QF on a non-discriminatory basis. The term “avoided cost” is defined as the incremental cost to an electric utility of electric energy or capacity, or both, which, but for the purchase from QFs, such utility would generate for itself or purchase from another source. FERC regulations also permit QFs and utilities to negotiate agreements for utility purchases of power at rates lower than the utilities’ avoided costs. While public utilities are not explicitly required by PURPA to enter into long-term power sales agreements, PURPA helped to create a regulatory environment in which it has been common for long-term agreements to be negotiated.
In order to be a QF, a cogeneration facility must produce not only electricity, but also useful thermal energy for use in an industrial or commercial process for heating or cooling applications in certain proportions to the facility’s total energy output, and must meet certain energy efficiency standards. A geothermal facility may qualify as a QF if it produces less than 80 megawatts of electricity. Finally, a QF (including a geothermal QF or other qualifying small power producer) must not be controlled or more than 50% owned by one or more electric utilities or by most electric utility holding companies, or one or more subsidiaries of such a utility or holding company or any combination thereof.
We endeavor to develop our projects, monitor compliance by the projects with applicable regulations and choose our customers in a manner which minimizes the risks of any project losing its QF status. Certain factors necessary to maintain QF status are, however, subject to the risk of events outside our control. For example, loss of a thermal energy customer or failure of a thermal energy customer to take required amounts of thermal energy from a cogeneration facility that is a QF could cause the facility to fail requirements regarding the level of useful thermal energy output. Upon the occurrence of such an event, we would seek to replace the thermal energy customer or find another use for the thermal energy which meets PURPA’s requirements, but no assurance can be given that this would be possible.
If one of the facilities in which we have an interest should lose its status as a QF, the project would no longer be entitled to the exemptions from PUHCA and the FPA. This could also trigger certain rights of termination under the facility’s power sales agreement, could subject the facility to rate regulation as a public utility under the FPA and state law and could result in us inadvertently becoming an electric utility holding company by owning more than 10% of the voting securities of, or controlling, a facility that would no longer be exempt from PUHCA. This could cause all of our remaining projects to lose their qualifying status, because QFs may not be controlled or more than 50% owned by such electric utility holding companies. Loss of QF status may also trigger defaults under covenants to maintain QF status in the projects power sales agreements, steam sales agreements and financing agreements and result in termination, penalties or acceleration of indebtedness under such agreements such that loss of status may be on a retroactive or a prospective basis.
Under the Energy Policy Act of 1992, if a facility can be qualified as an Exempt Wholesale Generator (“EWG”), meaning that all of its output is sold for resale rather than to end users, it will be exempt from PUHCA even if it does not qualify as a QF. Therefore, another response to the loss or potential loss of QF status would be to apply to have the project qualified as an EWG. However, assuming this changed status would be permissible under the terms of the applicable power sales agreement, rate approval from FERC would be required. In addition, the facility would be required to cease selling electricity to any retail customers (such as the thermal energy customer) to retain its EWG status and could become subject to state regulation of sales of thermal energy. See Public Utility Holding Company Regulation.
Currently, Congress is considering proposed legislation that would repeal PUHCA and amend PURPA by limiting its mandatory purchase obligation to existing contracts, in those regions of the country that are found to have competitive energy markets. In light of the circumstances in California, the Pacific Gas and Electric Company (“PG&E”) bankruptcy and the Enron bankruptcy, among other events in recent years, there are a number of federal legislative and regulatory initiatives that could result in changes in how the energy markets are regulated. We do not know whether these legislative and regulatory initiatives will be adopted or, if adopted, what form they may take. We cannot provide assurance that any legislation or regulation ultimately adopted would not adversely affect our existing domestic projects.
Public Utility Holding Company Regulation
Under PUHCA, any corporation, partnership or other legal entity which owns or controls 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of a public utility company, or a company which is a holding company for a public utility company, is subject to registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and regulation under PUHCA, unless eligible for an exemption. A holding company of a public utility company that is subject to registration is required by PUHCA to limit its utility operations to a single integrated utility system and to divest any other operations not functionally related to the operation of that utility system. Approval by the SEC is required for nearly all important financial and business dealings of a registered holding company. Under PURPA, most QFs are not public utility companies under PUHCA.
The Energy Policy Act of 1992, among other things, amends PUHCA to allow EWGs, under certain circumstances, to own and operate non-QF electric generating facilities without subjecting those producers to registration or regulation under PUHCA. The effect of such amendments has been to enhance the development of non-QFs which do not have to meet the fuel, production and ownership requirements of PURPA. We believe that these amendments benefit us by expanding our ability to own and operate facilities that do not qualify for QF status. However, they have also resulted in increased competition by allowing utilities and their affiliates to develop such facilities which are not subject to the constraints of PUHCA.
Federal Natural Gas Transportation Regulation
We have an ownership interest in 80 gas-fired power plants in operation or under construction. The cost of natural gas is ordinarily the largest expense of a gas-fired project and is critical to the project’s economics. The risks associated with using natural gas can include the need to arrange gathering, processing, extraction, blending, and storage, as well as transportation of the gas from great distances, including obtaining removal, export and import authority if the gas is transported from Canada; the possibility of interruption of the gas supply or transportation (depending on the quality of the gas reserves purchased or dedicated to the project, the financial and operating strength of the gas supplier, whether firm or non-firm transportation is purchased and the operations of the gas pipeline); and obligations to take a minimum quantity of gas and pay for it (i.e., take-and-pay obligations).
Pursuant to the Natural Gas Act, FERC has jurisdiction over the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce. With respect to most transactions that do not involve the construction of pipeline facilities, regulatory authorization can be obtained on a self-implementing basis. However, interstate pipeline rates and terms and conditions for such services are subject to continuing FERC oversight.
Federal Power Act Regulation
Under the FPA, FERC is authorized to regulate the transmission of electric energy and the sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce. Unless otherwise exempt, any person that owns or operates facilities used for such purposes is considered a public utility subject to FERC jurisdiction. FERC regulation under the FPA includes approval of the disposition of utility property, authorization of the issuance of securities by public utilities, regulation of the rates, terms and conditions for the transmission or sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce, the regulation of interlocking directorates, a uniform system of accounts and reporting requirements for public utilities.
FERC regulations implementing PURPA provide that a QF is exempt from regulation under the foregoing provisions of the FPA. An EWG is not exempt from the FPA and therefore an EWG that makes sales of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce is subject to FERC regulation as a public utility. However, many of the regulations which customarily apply to traditional public utilities have been waived or relaxed for power marketers, EWGs and other non-traditional public utilities that lack market power. EWGs are regularly granted authorization to charge market-based rates, blanket authority to issue securities, and waivers of certain FERC requirements pertaining to accounts, reports and interlocking directorates. Such action is intended to implement FERC’s policy to foster a more competitive wholesale power market.
Many of the generating projects in which we own an interest are operated as QFs and are therefore exempt from FERC regulation under the FPA. However, several of our generating projects are or will be EWGs subject to FERC jurisdiction under the FPA. Several of our affiliates have been granted authority to engage in sales at market-based rates and to issue securities, and have also been granted the customary waivers of FERC regulations available to non-traditional public utilities; however, we cannot assure that such authorities or waivers will be granted in the future to other affiliates.
Federal Open Access Electric Transmission Regulation
In the summer of 1996 FERC issued Orders Nos. 888 and 889 ordering the “functional unbundling” of transmission and generation assets by the transmission owning utilities subject to its jurisdiction. Under Order No. 888, the jurisdictional transmission owning utilities, and many non-jurisdictional transmission owners, were required to adopt the pro forma open access transmission tariff establishing terms of non-discriminatory transmission service, including generator interconnection service. Order No. 889 required transmission-owning utilities to publish information concerning the availability of transmission capacity and make such transmission capacity available on a non-discriminatory basis. In addition, these orders established the operational requirements of Independent System Operators (“ISO”), which are entities that have been given authority to operate the transmission assets of certain jurisdictional utilities. The interpretation and application of the requirements of Orders Nos. 888 and 889 continues to be refined through subsequent administrative proceedings at FERC. These orders have been subject to review, and have been affirmed, by the courts.
In December 1999 FERC issued Order No. 2000, which requires jurisdictional transmission-owning utilities to enter into agreements with ISOs to operate their transmission systems or join a Regional Transmission Organization (“RTO”), which would likewise control the transmission facilities in a certain region. Order No. 2000 sets forth the basic governance terms for RTOs. To date, compliance by the transmission-owning utilities has been uneven and has met with political resistance on the part of the state governments and the state public utilities commissions in some regions of the country. The impact on our business of the implementation of Order No. 2000 and the development of RTOs cannot be predicted.
In addition to its efforts in Order Nos. 888, 889, and 2000 and in creating RTOs, FERC has attempted to further refine and clarify the rights and obligations of owners and users of the interstate transmission grid in its Standard Market Design (“SMD”) and Interconnection rule-making proceedings. FERC’s intention under the SMD proceedings is to establish a set of standard rules, which could be adopted in the form of a revised tariff by transmission-owning utilities, addressing the manner in which transmission capacity would be allocated, how generation would be dispatched given transmission constraints, the coordination of transmission upgrades and the allocation of costs associated therewith, among other transmission-related issues. The SMD rule-making proceeding is pending currently. The timing of FERC’s issuance of a final order in this proceeding
is uncertain and has been delayed due to political resistance on the part of the state governments and the state public utilities commissions in some regions in the country. The impact on our business due to the issuance of a final order in this proceeding is uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time.
On July 24, 2003, FERC issued Order No. 2003 which is the final rule in the Interconnection rule-making proceeding. Order No. 2003 establishes uniform procedures for generator interconnection to the transmission grid, including the allocation of some of the costs associated with transmission system upgrades and special facilities required to interconnect the generator to the grid. Pursuant to Order No. 2003, transmission owners have been directed to make compliance filings with the FERC to implement the requirements of the order. The purpose of Order No. 2003 is to provide greater certainty and reduce costs associated with the interconnection of new generation facilities to the transmission grid.
Western Energy Markets
There was significant price volatility in both wholesale electricity and gas markets in the Western United States for much of calendar year 2000 and extending through the second quarter of 2001. Due to a number factors, including drier than expected weather, which led to lower than normal hydro-electric capacity in California and the Northwestern United States, inadequate natural gas pipeline and electric generation capacity to meet higher than anticipated energy demand in the region, the inability of the California utilities to manage their exposure to such price volatility due to regulatory and financial constraints, and evolving market structures in California, prices for electricity and natural gas were much higher than anticipated. A number of federal and state investigations and proceedings were commenced to address the crisis.
There are currently a number of proceedings pending at FERC which were initiated as a direct result of the price volatility in the energy markets in the Western United States during this period. Many of these proceedings were initiated by buyers of wholesale electricity seeking refunds for purchases made during this period or the reduction of price terms in contracts entered into at this time. We have been a party to some of these proceedings. See Item 1. “Business - Risk Factors - California Power Market” and Item 3.