Item 2. Properties
Joint Ventures and Strategic Alliance Properties
Mt. Hamilton Gold Project (Nevada, USA)
1. Property Description and Location
The consolidated Mt. Hamilton project property consists of 120 unpatented mining claims, 9 patented mining claims and 200 acres of fee land. Ninety-nine of these claims and all of the private surface rights are subject to underlying leases. The unpatented claims are also subject to the US Mining Law of 1872 and US Department of Agriculture - Forest Service administration. The property is located in White Pine County, eastern Nevada.
On August 26, 2010, we signed the LOI with Ely to earn up to an 80% interest in DHI-US's Mt. Hamilton property. Subsequently, we entered into the MH Agreement with DHI-US with respect to MH-LLC, which now holds the Mt. Hamilton project assets. Per the terms of the MH Agreement, DHI-US contributed all of its interests in the Mt. Hamilton project to MH-LLC for a 90% initial interest in MH-LLC and Solitario has a 10% initial interest in MH-LLC by virtue of its initial $300,000 advance royalty payment in November 2010 to one of the underlying property owners. On signing the LOI, Solitario subscribed for a private placement of 3,333,333 units of Ely at a price of CDN$0.15 per Unit for an aggregate consideration of approximately CDN$500,000. Each unit consists of one common share and one-half share purchase warrant entitling the holder of a whole warrant to purchase an additional share of Ely for CDN$0.25, with such warrant expiring two years from the subscription date. The private placement consisted of two tranches. The first tranche of CDN$250,000 was funded on August 31, 2010, the second tranche of CDN$250,000 was funded on October 19, 2010. Solitario also committed to spend $1.0 million on exploration and feasibility work during the first year and has met this spending requirement as of February 28, 2011. Solitario may elect to terminate its interest in the Mt. Hamilton project at any time and have no further earn-in obligations on the project.
To earn its full 80% interest in the project, Solitario is further required to fund the following:
(1) Includes $500,000 to be distributed by DHI-US to Ely to enable Ely to make payment to Augusta on
long-term debt
(2) Includes $750,000 to be distributed by DHI-US to Ely to enable Ely to make payment to Augusta on
long-term debt
(3) Payments are to enable Ely to make payment to Augusta for long-term debt, see Note 4, to the
consolidated financial statements, in Item 8, below.
(4) Annual minimum advance royalty payments are due through production
<PAGE>
Alternatively, upon completion of a bankable feasibility study we will earn an 80% interest in MH-LLC, but we will still be required to make all of the payments listed above pursuant to the MH Agreement and the LOI.
Upon completion of a bankable feasibility study, all construction and permitting costs will be shared pro-rata. However, DHI-US may elect to have Solitario fund DHI-US's 20% share of all such costs, with Solitario to be repaid by DHI-US, with interest, out of 80% of DHI-US's share of net proceeds from MH-LLC.
We are the manager of MH-LLC under the terms of the MH Agreement, which provides that prior to our earn-in we have authority for all significant operating decisions. After earn-in, with a few limited exceptions that require unanimous consent, we will control all decisions under the MH Agreement, as a result of our ownership of a majority of the voting membership interests in MH-LLC.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
Access to the Mt. Hamilton Project is relatively good from either of the two closest towns; Ely, Nevada or Eureka, Nevada. From Ely, Nevada the property is accessed by traveling 45 miles west on paved Highway 50 and then traveling 10 miles south via a County maintained gravel road. From Eureka, Nevada the property is accessed by traveling 50 miles east on Highway 50 and then traveling 10 miles south via a County maintained gravel road.
The climate is typical for high-desert, semiarid regions of Nevada with summer high-temperatures averaging around 85 degrees F and the winter lows averaging 10 degrees F. Average precipitation is approximately 10 inches per year, and occurs mainly in the winter and spring seasons. Ely, Nevada, the County Seat of White Pine County, has a population estimated at about 4,000 and offers the most services to the project area, with sufficient housing, schools, hospital and commercial business capable of servicing the needs of a mine at Mt. Hamilton. Quadra FNX Mining operates the Robinson open pit copper mine with over 500 employees eleven miles east of Ely, Nevada. Additionally, Eureka, Nevada with a population of about 2,000, offers services and is also host to other mining operations.
With the exception of relatively good road access to the Mt. Hamilton property, and existing water wells with sufficient water to supply anticipated processing needs, there is no other infrastructure at the project site. The nearest power line to the property is approximately 17 miles away.
The property lies within the Basin and Range physiographic province of Nevada on the western flanks of the White Pine Mountains and the eastern margin of the topographically flat and broad Newark Valley. The Centennial gold deposit, which constitutes the main area of interest, is situated at an elevation of about 8,700 feet. The location of the proposed heap leach pads is located about 1.5 miles northwest of the Centennial gold deposit at an elevation of approximately 7,000 feet in a relatively flat area.
3. History
The general area reportedly produced 20 to 40 million ounces of silver and a limited amount of gold from 1868 to 1880. Phillips Petroleum acquired the property in 1968 and explored for tungsten, molybdenum and copper. In 1984 Westmont Gold Inc. entered into a joint venture with Phillips and Queenstake Resources Ltd. and commenced a large-scale exploration program focused on gold. In 1993 the property was fully transferred to Westmont. In June 1994 Rea Gold Corp. acquired the property and began production of the NE Seligman deposits in November 1994. Rea mined five small Seligman area deposits to June 1997, when Rea suspended mining. Rea filed for bankruptcy in November 1997.
In 2002, the US Bankruptcy Trustee abandoned all of the unpatented claims allowing them to lapse for failure to pay the annual maintenance fees. Centennial Minerals Company LLC ("Centennial") staked the claims covering the Centennial deposit in late-2002, and in 2003 purchased all of the patented and fee lands. . Augusta acquired a 100% leasehold interest in the property, subject to an underlying royalty, from Centennial in late-2003. In November 2007, Augusta sold 100% of the shares of DHI Minerals, Ltd., of which DHI-US, its wholly-owned subsidiary that held the Mt. Hamilton property to Ely. From 2008 through August 2010, Ely engaged SRK Consulting (US), Inc. ("SRK"), an independent full-service mining engineering consulting company, to complete a detailed NI 43-101 compliant Preliminary Economic Assessment Study of the Centennial gold and silver deposit. The study was completed in May 2009, and updated in July 2010. In August 2010, Solitario signed the LOI to joint venture the Mt. Hamilton property with Ely, through DHI-US.
<PAGE>
4. Geologic Setting
The Mt. Hamilton property is located near the southern end of the Battle Mountain Gold Trend, a northwest-oriented trend that contains several major gold mines as well as dozens of smaller mines and prospects. The property's underlying geology is dominated by Cambrian-age sedimentary rocks that include the Eldorado Dolomite, Secret Canyon Shale and Dunderberg Shale. The sedimentary sequence has been intruded by two igneous stocks of Cretaceous-age: the Seligman granodiorite stock and the Monte Cristo granite stock; both of which are slightly over 100 million years in age. These two stocks variably altered the surrounding sedimentary rocks by metamorphic processes to skarn (calc-silicate mineral assemblage).
5. Prior Exploration
Prior to 1968, very little is known about exploration activities on the property. Phillips Petroleum acquired the property in 1968 and drilled over 100,000 feet by the early 1980's. The focus of Phillips' work was to evaluate tungsten-molybdenum-copper mineralization in a skarn geologic setting. A study prepared for Phillips in June 1978 quoted an estimate of mineralized material of 6.2 million tons at a grade of 0.42% WO3 (tungsten), 0.37% Mo and 0.6% Cu. These data are historical and have not been reviewed by a qualified person nor reconciled for a 43-101 compliant resource estimate and have not been shown to have economic viability within present day parameters.
In 1984 Westmont Gold Inc. entered into a joint venture with Phillips and Queenstake Resources Ltd. and commenced a large-scale exploration program focused on gold. By early 1989, this work defined the NE Seligman deposits and the Centennial deposit. Westmont conducted feasibility and permitting studies from 1990 through 1994, when the property was sold to Rea Gold Corp. Rea did not conduct any exploration on the project, but focused solely on placing the NE Seligman deposits into production and mining activities. Augusta, after acquiring the project in late-2003, conducted a limited confirmation drilling program and pre-feasibility related studies on the property for the next several years. Solitario conducted a limited infill and extension drilling program from November 2010 to the end of January 2011, as well as geotechnical, metallurgical and hydrologic drilling for feasibility-related issues.
6. Mineralization
There are two primary styles of mineralization at Mt. Hamilton: early skarn-hosted tungsten +/- molybdenum +/- copper ("WO3-Mo-Cu") style; and, a later-stage epithermal gold style of mineralization. The likely source for both the WO3-Mo-Cu skarn mineralization and precious metal bearing late-stage hydrothermal fluids was the Seligman granodiorite stock that is Cretaceous in age (105 million years). Early metasomatic alteration converted shales to hornfels and silty carbonates to calc-silicate skarn. Mineralization is primarily hosted in a 200-300 foot thick skarn horizon.
Mineralization at the Centennial gold deposit, which is the primary focus of current Solitario activities, is controlled by stratigraphy, structure and magmatic hydrothermal alteration. Gold and silver are concentrated along two shallowly dipping sub-parallel faults and associated fracture zones that penetrate the skarn horizon and provided pathways for hydrothermal fluids from the Seligman stock situated to the north. The faulting also appears to have controlled oxidation of the gold zone. The Centennial gold deposit is a north-south oriented body that is about 1,500 feet long and approximately 700 feet wide.
7. Drilling
The Centennial gold deposit has been defined by 303 reverse circulation ("RC") drill holes totaling approximately 137,140 feet and 11 core holes totaling 4,120feet. These drill totals do not include Ely's 2008 drilling program consisting of five core holes totaling 2,241 feet nor Solitario's late-2010 and early 2011 core drilling program totaling eleven holes and 6,250 feet. RC recovery is reported to be in excess of 90% and core recovery is generally near 100%, with few exceptions.
Drill data included in resource modeling by SRK utilized historical data generated by Phillips Petroleum, Westmont Gold Inc. and Rea Gold. SRK concluded that the data from all three previous operators of the project to be valid and sufficiently well documented to provide a reasonable representation of the Centennial gold deposit and sufficiently verifiable for use in a Canadian Institute of Mining ("CIM")-compliant resource estimate.
<PAGE>
8. Sampling, Analysis and Sample Security
SRK reviewed in detail procedures utilized by all prior managers of the project for drill hole sampling methods, including RC and core splitting, and sample preparation and analyses, including check assay procedures and qualifications of the laboratories used for assay analyses. Methodology used by previous project managers included check assays by a second laboratory, insertion of standard and duplicate samples to the assay lab, and photography of core samples. SRK also undertook an independent program to verify data. This program consisted of field verifications, independent assay analysis, comparison of electronic drill-hole data to paper data, and checking the electronic assay data base against original assay certificates.
SRK opined that the sampling and analyses methodology utilized for both RC and core drilling were appropriate for the style of mineralization at the Centennial gold deposit and of sufficient quality to incorporate into a NI 43-101 compliant resource estimate. Furthermore, SRK believes the Centennial gold deposit drill hole assay database has been verified with substantial QA/QC checks, by both the original project managers and SRK's independent work, including the location of drill cuttings, core, analytical laboratory assay certificates, and that all aspects of the data base are satisfactory for use in resource estimation. Solitario's work to date supports SRK's opinions concerning the quality of the Centennial gold deposit data base.
Because much of the work at Mt. Hamilton was conducted prior to chain-of-custody/sample security methodology becoming an integral part of standard industry practice quality control procedures, it is difficult to assess pre-1998 sample security. However, Solitario believes that no serious sample security breaches occurred or are known to have occurred based upon other sample quality control procedures that all past project managers employed, such as splitting of core and splitting of RC course rejects and pulp samples to allow for subsequent new independent assay verification.
9. Feasibility Studies
Solitario has engaged SRK to complete a bankable feasibility study on the Centennial gold and silver deposit located on the Mt. Hamilton property. Work began in November 2010 and is currently ongoing. See section "12. Planned Exploration and Development," for the details of completed and planned feasibility activities. We estimate that the feasibility report will be completed during the third quarter of 2011.
On May 13, 2009, SRK on behalf of Ely, completed a Preliminary Economic Assessment for the Centennial Gold and Silver Deposit on the Mt. Hamilton Property using Canadian industry accepted CIM "Best Practices and Reporting Guidelines" for disclosing mineral exploration information, the Canadian Securities Administrators revised regulations in NI 43-101 (Standards of Disclosure For Mineral Projects) and Companion Policy 43-101CP, and CIM Definition Standards for Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves (December 11, 2005).
10. Mineral Resource Estimations
There are no reported mineral reserves.
11. Mining Operations
No mining operations have occurred on the project within the past 13 years.
12. Planned Exploration and Development
Solitario's focus for 2011 is completion of a bankable feasibility report and a plan of operations that will be filed with the US Department of Agriculture - Forest Service. Feasibility field work began in November 2010 and consisted of feasibility-level geotechnical, metallurgical, and hydro-geologic drilling, and a limited amount of drilling to provide additional resource information. This eleven-hole, 6,250-foot core drilling program was completed in January 2011.
Auger drilling is planned in March 2011 for the proposed leach pad area for design purposes. Additional metallurgical testing began in February 2011 to test several areas within the Centennial gold deposit that have not been adequately studied. Heap and waste rock geochemical characterization also began in the first quarter of 2011. Feasibility level economic evaluation is underway by SRK and will continue until the feasibility study is completed.
<PAGE>
Bongara Zinc Project (Peru)
1. Property Description and Location
The Bongara project consists of 16 concessions comprising 12,800 hectares of mineral rights granted to or under option to Minera Bongara S.A., a subsidiary of ours incorporated in Peru. The property is located in the Department of Amazonas, northern Peru. On August 15, 2006 Solitario signed a Letter Agreement with Votorantim Metais Cajamarquilla, S.A., a wholly owned subsidiary of Votorantim Metais (both companies referred to as "Votorantim"), on Solitario's 100%-owned Bongara zinc project. On March 24, 2007, Solitario signed a definitive agreement, the Framework Agreement for the Exploration and Potential Development of Mining Properties, (the "Framework Agreement") pursuant to, and replacing, the previously signed Bongara Letter Agreement with Votorantim Metais. Solitario's and Votorantim's property interests are held through the ownership of shares in Minera Bongara S.A., a joint operating company that holds a 100% interest in the mineral rights and other project assets. Solitario currently owns 100% of the shares in Minera Bongara S.A.
Votorantim can earn up to a 70% shareholding interest in the joint operating company by funding an initial $1.0 million exploration program (completed), by completing future annual exploration and development expenditures until a production decision is made or the agreement is terminated. The option to earn the 70% interest can be exercised by Votorantim any time after the first year commitment by committing to place the project into production based upon a feasibility study. The Framework Agreement calls for Votorantim to have minimum annual exploration and development expenditures of $1.5 million in each of years two and three, and $2.5 million in all subsequent years until a minimum of $18.0 million has been expended by Votorantim. Through December 31, 2010, Votorantim has met all minimum annual exploration and development commitments. Votorantim is the project manager. Votorantim, in its sole discretion, may elect to terminate the option to earn the 70% interest at any time after the first year commitment. In addition, Votorantim was required to make annual delay rental payments of $100,000 to Solitario on August 15, 2007 (completed) and cash payments of $200,000 on August 15, 2008, 2009 and 2010 (completed), and by making further payments to Solitario of $200,000 on all subsequent anniversaries, until Solitario receives notice that $18 million has been spent by Votorantim or a production decision is made. Once Votorantim has fully funded its $18.0 million work commitment and committed to place the project into production based upon a feasibility study, it has further agreed to finance Solitario's 30% participating interest through production. Solitario will repay the loan facility through 50% of Solitario's cash flow distributions from the joint operating company.
According to Peruvian law, concessions may be held indefinitely, subject only to payment of annual fees to the government. Each year a payment of $3.00 per hectare must be made by the last day of June to keep the claims in good standing. Because some of the Bongara concessions are more than 6 years old beginning in 2005, there is a $6.00 surcharge per hectare, if less than $100 per hectare is invested in exploration and development of the claim. Peru also imposes a sliding scale net smelter return royalty (NSR) on all precious and base metal production. This NSR assesses a tax of 1% on all gross proceeds from production up to $60,000,000, a 2% NSR on proceeds between $60,000,000 and $120,000,000 and a 3% NSR on proceeds in excess of $120,000,000. In June, 2011 payments of approximately $51,000 to the Peruvian government will be due in order to maintain the mineral rights of Minera Bongara.
Votorantim signed a new surface rights agreement with the local community in 2009, which controls the surface of the primary area of interest of our Bongara joint venture. This agreement provides for an annual payment of $31,250 and funding for mutually agreed social development programs in return for the right to perform exploration work including road building and drilling. From time to time we enter into surface rights agreements with individual landowners or communities to provide access for exploration work. Generally, these are short term agreements. Votorantim is responsible for all joint venture costs as part of the Framework Agreement.
Environmental permits are required for exploration and development projects in Peru that involve drilling, road building or underground mining. The requisite environmental and archeological studies were completed for all past work, but new studies are ongoing to allow for the expanded activities planned for future years. Although we believe that these permits will be obtained in a timely fashion, the timing of government approval of permits remains beyond our control.
<PAGE>
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The Bongara property is accessed by the paved Carretera Marginal road, which provides access from the coastal city of Chiclayo. The nearest town is Pedro Ruiz located 15 kilometers southeast of the property and the Carretera Marginal is situated approximately eight kilometers south of the deposit. The area of the majority of past drilling and the most prospective mineralization, Florida Canyon, is currently inaccessible by road, the work to date having been done by either foot or helicopter access. Votorantim began construction of a road to the deposit in October 2010. Work is continuing on the road with approximately nine kilometers completed as of March 8, 2011. Votorantim maintains project field offices in Pedro Ruiz and a drill core processing facility and operations office in the nearby community of Shipasbamba. The climate is tropical and the terrain is mountainous and jungle covered. Seasonal rains hamper exploration work for four to five months of the year by limiting access. Several small villages are located within five kilometers of the drilling area.
3. History
We discovered the Florida Canyon mineralized zone of the Bongara Project in 1996. Subsequently, we optioned the property in December 1996 to Cominco (now Teck Resources). Cominco withdrew from the joint venture in February 2001. We maintained the most important claims from 2001 to 2006, until the Votorantim Letter Agreement was signed. All of the significant work on the property has been conducted by Cominco, and more recently by Votorantim, and is described below in section 5, "Prior Exploration."
4. Geological Setting
The geology of the Bongara area is relatively simple consisting of a sequence of Jurassic and Triassic clastic and carbonate rocks which are gently deformed. The Mississippi Valley type mineralization occurs in the carbonate facies of the Chambara (rock) Formation. This sedimentary sequence is part of what is referred to as the Pucura Group that hosts mineral deposits throughout Peru.
5. Prior Exploration
We conducted a regional stream sediment survey and reconnaissance geological surveys leading to the discovery of the Florida Canyon area in 1996. The discovered outcropping mineralization is located in two deeply incised canyons within the limestone stratigraphy.
Subsequent to our initial work, Cominco conducted extensive mapping, soil and rock sampling, stream sediment surveys and drilling. This work was designed to determine the extent and grade of the zinc-lead mineralization, the controls of deposition and to identify areas of potential new mineralization. All work performed by us, Cominco or Votorantim was done by direct employees of the respective companies with the exception of the drilling which was performed by a third-party drilling company.
6. Mineralization
Mineralization occurs as massive to semi-massive replacements of sphalerite and galena localized by specific sedimentary facies (rock strata) within the limestone stratigraphy and by structural feeders and karst breccias. A total of eleven preferred beds for replacement mineralization have been located within the middle unit of the Chambara Formation. Mineralization is associated with the conversion of limestone to dolomite, which creates porosity and permeability within the rock formations, promoting the passage of mineralizing fluids through the rock formations forming stratigraphically controlled manto deposits. Drilling of stratigraphic targets has shown that certain coarser facies of the stratigraphy are the best hosts for mineralization.
Karst features are localized along faults and locally produce "breakout zones" where mineralization may extend vertically across thick stratigraphic intervals along the faults where collapse breccias have been replaced by ore minerals. Mineralized karst structures are up to fifty meters in width. The stratigraphically controlled mineralization is typically one to several meters in thickness, but locally attains thicknesses of eight to ten meters. Generally the stratigraphic mineralization, while thinner, is of higher grade and laterally more extensive. Evidence for these breakout zones are provided by the following drill holes from various locations on the property:
<PAGE>
Breakout
Zone Name
Drill Hole
Number
Intercepts
(meters)
Zinc
%
Lead
%
Zinc+Lead
%
Sam
GC-17*
FC-23*
58.8
81.5
12.0
4.8
2.8
0.8
14.8
5.6
Karen
A-1*
36.2
12.8
2.7
15.5
North Zone
V-21
92.0
5.5
1.7
7.2
South Zone
V-44
V-169
28.3
51.6
15.2
7.1
0.8
0.7
16.0
7.8
The middle unit of the Chambara formation, where mineralized, is commonly dolomitized within the zone of highest sedimentary-induced permeability. Dolomitization reaches stratigraphic thicknesses in excess of 100 meters locally. This alteration is thought to be related to the mineralizing event in most cases and is an important exploration tool. Continuity of the mineralization is thought to be demonstrable in areas of highest drilling density by correlation of mineralization within characteristic sedimentary facies typical of specific stratigraphic intervals.
7. Drilling
A total of 247 diamond drill holes (HQ and NQ size) have been completed by Cominco and Votorantim since the project's inception. These holes vary in depth up to 610 meters. Total meters drilled through the end of 2010 are 72,814 meters. A summary of drilling by year is provided in the table below:
Operator
Year
Number of Holes
Meters Drilled
Cominco
Pre-2006
24,696
Votorantim
4,354
11,443
16,468
3,611
12,242
Project Total
The mineralized area that has been drilled measures approximately two by two kilometers. Votorantim's drilling during 2010 was both infill drilling designed to better define mineralization and demonstrate continuity and also step-out drilling to define new resources. The infill drilling program has served to better define the quality and spatial distribution of mineralization, but additional infill drilling will be required to establish reserves. All drilling was done by LF-70 core-drilling rigs.
8. Sampling, Analysis and Security of Samples
Core samples were transported from the drill by helicopter in sealed boxes to the processing facility in Shipasbamba where they were split by a diamond saw. Half of the core was taken of intervals selected according to geologic criteria under the supervision of the geologist in charge and shipped in sealed bags by land. Cominco used SGS Laboratories and Votorantim used ALS-Chemex, both in Lima, Peru, where all samples were analyzed by ICP. Any samples that contained greater than 1% zinc were then analyzed by wet chemistry assay for zinc and lead to provide a more accurate analysis of grade.
Since August 2006, Votorantim has been in control of all field activities on the project and is responsible for the security of samples. Votorantim has indicated to us that there have been no breaches in the security of the samples. We have reviewed Votorantim's sampling procedures and believe that adequate procedures are in place to ensure the future security and integrity of samples. No breaches of security of samples are known to have occurred prior to Votorantim's work on the project.
<PAGE>
9. Pre-Feasibility Studies
Votorantim has engaged independent mining engineering and metallurgical firms to conduct and update a scoping-level study to provide order-of-magnitude estimates of deposit size and grade, sizing of appropriate scale of operations, infrastructure, and capital and operating cost estimates. The metallurgical testing has provided an evaluation of the mineralized material at Florida Canyon. Votorantim has reported to us that the results of this work has indicated that a standard flotation process on sulfide ore would achieve zinc recoveries of 93% and lead recoveries of 85% with 88% of the recoverable silver reporting to the lead concentrate. Votorantim is planning further independent analysis and studies to optimize overall recovery of metals.
10. Mineralized Material Estimations
There are no reported mineral reserves.
12. Mining Operations
No commercial mining operations to recover metals have occurred on the project. However, in September of 2010, Votorantim initiated an underground tunneling program to access mineralization. As of January 31, 2011, 270 meters of tunneling were completed which is expected to continue throughout 2011 until completion of a 700 meter access drift
13. Planned Exploration and Development
For 2011, Votorantim will continue road construction to the project area, tunneling to access the San Jorge zone of the Florida Canyon deposit, metallurgical testing, and other pre-feasibility activities in preparation to completing a full feasibility report in 2012. Drilling to further define mineralization will also be conducted from both the surface and underground workings that are currently being driven. The planned road construction will ultimately consist of approximately 23 kilometers of new road alignment to the deposit when all required permits and permissions are in place. To date, access to the deposit has occurred via helicopter and foot-trails. Permitting and social development activities with surrounding communities will also continue throughout 2011.
Pedra Branca Platinum Group Metals Project (Brazil)
1. Property Description and Location
We are exploring the Pedra Branca property for platinum and palladium mineralization (platinum group metals, or "PGM"). At December 31, 2010, the Pedra Branca project consisted of 57 exploration concessions totaling approximately 70,000 hectares in Ceara State, Brazil. We have applied to the National Department of Mineral Production ("DNPM") to convert five exploration concessions to mining concessions. These applications are under review by the DNPM. Pedra Branca do Mineracao S.A. ("PBM"), a Brazilian entity in which we hold a 49% interest and which holds a 100%-interest in all concessions. Anglo Platinum Ltd. ("Anglo") owns a 51% interest in PBM as of December 31, 2010. Eldorado Gold Corporation is entitled to a 2% NSR royalty on 10 of the concessions totaling 10,000 hectares.
On January 28, 2003, we entered into a Letter Agreement with Anglo whereby Anglo could earn various incremental interests in PBM up to a 65% interest by making exploration expenditures totaling $7.0 million (completed), completing a bankable feasibility study, or spending an additional $10 million on exploration and development, whichever occurs first, and arranging financing to put the project into commercial production. The Letter Agreement was amended four times between July 2004 and April 2006, generally to extend various work commitment deadlines mandated in the Letter Agreement. On July 14, 2006, we signed the Pedra Branca Framework Agreement with Anglo that specified actions we and Anglo would take to establish and govern PBM, the corporate entity that now holds 100% title to all the assets of the Pedra Branca project, and the mechanics for Anglo's continued funding of Pedra Branca exploration.
<PAGE>
On April 24, 2007, we signed the definitive agreement, the Shareholders Agreement, relating to the Pedra Branca Project in Brazil, pursuant to the previously signed Pedra Branca Letter Agreement with Anglo for the exploration and development of the Pedra Branca Project. The Shareholders Agreement provides for Solitario's and Anglo's property interests to be held through the ownership of shares in PBM. As part of the agreement, Anglo earned a 30% interest in PBM as of December 31, 2008, as a result of funding a total of $4.0 million on exploration at Pedra Branca. As a result of Anglo funding an additional $3.0 million for exploration during 2009 and 2010, it earned an additional 21% interest in PBM on July 21, 2010, and now holds a 51% interest in PBM. We deconsolidated our interest in PBM as a result of Anglo earning its additional interest. Anglo can earn an additional 9% interest in PBM (for a total of 60%) by completing either (i) a bankable feasibility study or (ii) spending an additional $10.0 million on exploration or development, whichever comes first. Anglo can also earn an additional 5% interest in PBM (for a total of 65%) by arranging for 100% financing to put the project into commercial production.
We also entered into a Services Agreement with Anglo whereby Solitario (and/or our subsidiaries) would act as an independent contractor directing the exploration and administrative activities for PBM and its shareholders. Solitario receives a 5% management fee based upon total expenditures.
PBM continued to prioritize its land holdings in 2010 and consequently reduced its holdings by 60 concessions totaling 71,200 hectares. Land payments for 2010 are projected to be approximately $98,000 including annual claim maintenance payments and smaller surface rights payments to local landowners. This amount may change due to the reduction or addition of properties, changes in planned drilling activities or a change in the currency exchange rate.
The mineral interests currently held by us, through PBM, are subject to the mining regulations of Brazil. These rights are granted by the Brazilian government and administered by the National Department of Mineral Production ("DNPM"). To initially obtain mineral concessions from the DNPM, we must provide the DNPM with work plans and pay an initial fee of approximately $310 per concession, depending upon the Brazil-U.S. exchange rate. To keep the concessions in good standing, we must continue to pay regular annual fees of $1.00 per hectare for the first three years and approximately $1.50 per hectare after the first three years and provide the DNPM with annual progress reports. PBM is subject to yearly inspections by the DNPM for compliance with reported plans and environmental regulations.
Exploration concessions are granted by the DNPM for a maximum period of three years with the right of the applicant to apply for an extension which may be granted for up to an additional three years. Upon expiration of the exploration concession the concessionaire must apply for conversion of the claim to a mining concession or abandon the property. PBM has applied for the conversion of five claims to mining concessions. Unlike exploration concessions, mining concessions do not expire but do have requirements for advancing feasibility and development work toward production. Approval of the conversion is at the discretion of the DNPM and we can give no assurance that the conversion of the concessions will be granted.
Prior to mining on the claims PBM must reach an agreement with the surface rights owners of the affected land. Additionally, PBM must pay a royalty to governmental agencies based on the materials produced. This amount is 0.2% of the sales for precious metals excluding gold, which is subject to a 3% royalty.
PBM currently holds no surface rights to the property but have entered into short-term agreements with the surface rights owners to compensate for exploration activities.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
Access to the project is by paved road from the state capital of Fortaleza in Ceara State and by local farm roads. Local access is constructed where necessary. The largest towns in the immediate vicinity of the project are Pedra Branca and Boa Viagem. A field camp is located at the small community of Capitao Mor. The climate is warm and dry for eight months of the year with a warm wet season prevailing for the remaining four months (December-March). Year-round operations can be conducted. The topography is rolling to flat and vegetation is sparse to heavy brush. The elevation ranges from 500 to 800 meters.
3. History
In the 1980's Rio Tinto Ltd., ("Rio Tinto") and Gencore, Ltd. ("Gencore") performed exploration work on part of the project now operated by us. Both companies did surface exploration and drilling, including 42 diamond drill holes by Rio Tinto and 8 diamond drill holes by Gencore on the former Eldorado lease. In October 2000, we completed a plan of arrangement (the "Plan of Arrangement") whereby we acquired Altoro Gold Corp. ("Altoro"). In 1999, Altoro had acquired concessions from the government over some of the property previously held by Rio Tinto. We acquired additional concessions in 2000 and 2001, through our subsidiary Altoro Mineracao, Ltda. to cover extensions of the mineralized trend.
<PAGE>
Altoro, prior to the Plan of Arrangement with us, conducted surface work, drilled 18 diamond drill holes and entered into a Joint Venture agreement with Rockwell Ventures, Inc. ("Rockwell") of Vancouver, British Columbia. Rockwell conducted further surface exploration and drilled an additional 31 holes. Rockwell terminated its agreement with us in June 2001. From July 2001 until late-2002, we conducted geochemical sampling, geophysical surveys and independently drilled 22 diamond drill holes. From January 2003 to date, Anglo funded five drilling programs that focused on better defining the Esbarro and Curiu deposits, further testing the Cedro, Trapia and Santo Amaro prospects, and initial drill testing of 20 other target areas.
4. Geological Setting
The project lies within an Archean-aged block in the Brazilian shield, which is characterized by amphibolite grade metamorphic rocks of various compositions. The most common rock types in the area are unmineralized intermediate to felsic composition gneisses and granitic intrusive phases.
The PGM mineralization occurs in specific stratigraphic intervals within a segmented mafic-ultramafic layered complex. The mineralized intervals comprise concordant layers, originally of composition varying from peridotite to dunite. These layers contain chromite and/or minor sulfides of iron, copper and/or nickel. The primary silicate ultramafic minerals in the rocks have been variably converted to amphibole, serpentine or talc. A number of separate ultramafic bodies have been delineated, some of which contain the PGM-bearing stratigraphic intervals. All of the rocks have been folded and faulted to differing degrees during dynamic metamorphism in the area.
5. Prior Exploration
Surface exploration conducted, initially by Altoro, and subsequently by Rockwell, us and then PBM, consists of:
Reconnaissance geologic mapping and rock sampling
Systematic line cutting, soil sampling and geologic mapping of lines
Ground magnetics and induced polarization ("IP") geophysical surveys
Stream sediment and panned-concentrate geochemistry
Diamond drilling of 26 prospect areas
All of the above work has been conducted directly by us or PBM, our predecessor or its partners with the exception of diamond drilling which was performed by contracted independent drilling companies. Magnetometric surveys are conducted by Solitario personnel. A third-party geophysical contractor conducted the IP survey and, an independent geophysical consultant has been utilized to further interpret the magnetic and IP data.
The surface work has generally been focused to identify outcroppings of ultramafic rocks, detect anomalous concentrations of PGM in soils or rocks and determine if magnetic minerals are present in bedrock. Soil and rock surveying conducted to date shows that both methods reliably reflect the location of outcropping and subcropping PGM mineralization. Detailed geologic mapping has been conducted over some of the known ultramafic rock outcroppings to determine the source of anomalous PGM values.
The targeted ultramafic rocks are generally more magnetic than the surrounding rocks and magnetometry has been shown to be effective at locating these bodies, though magnetometry and surface geochemical sampling does not determine the PGM content of an ultramafic body with certainty.
6. Mineralization
Approximately 26 prospects have been located within the project area. All of these identified prospects display either anomalous PGM values in soils or rocks and/or magnetic signatures indicating the presence of magnetic minerals. Drilling has intersected significant mineralization on 13 of the prospects.
The stratigraphic layering of an ultramafic body controls the PGM content of the ultramafic rocks. In many cases the PGM grade is associated with the mineral chromite. In other areas the PGM is more closely related with minor sulfide concentration. Within PGM-enriched ultramafics, grade and thickness can vary considerably. Widths encountered vary from less than a meter to tens of meters in interpreted true thickness.
<PAGE>
7. Drilling
Prior to 2010, a total 318 holes totaling 23,811 meters of core drilling were completed on the project. Of this, 3,217 meters were drilled by Rio Tinto and Gencore for which the core itself is not available, nor are the procedures documented under which the holes were completed. Due to a scarcity in drill rig availability in Brazil, PBM was unable to initiate drilling activities until late-November 2010. Most of the planned 2010 program has been delayed until early 2011. Consequently, the chart provided below does not include any 2010 drilling statistics.
Operator
Year
Number of Holes
Meters Drilled
Rio Tinto, Gencore
Pre-1999
3,320
Altoro
1999-2000
1,200
Rockwell
2,132
Solitario
2,363
Solitario & PBM*
3,993
2,466
3,251
1,839
3,247
Project Total
23,811
*funded by Anglo
In the case of holes drilled by Altoro, Rockwell, us and PBM, the following procedures were followed. Drill holes were either of NQ (1 and 7/8 inch) or HQ (2 and 1/2 inch) diameter and were boxed in the field under the supervision of the geologist in charge. With the exception of weathered material near surface, at least 90% of the core had recoveries exceeding 90%.
Based on drill results to date we believe the prospects Esbarro, Cedro I, II, III and IV, Curiu, Trapia I, Trapia West and Santo Amaro exhibit results warranting further definition drilling of high priority. PBM is planning on drilling additional targets in future programs.
The Esbarro prospect, with 107 holes, has the largest database of information of the drilled prospects. Drilling was conducted on approximately 50-meter spaced centers. The Curiu prospect is the second most detailed prospect drilled with 44 holes completed to date. Drilling was conducted on generally 25-meter spaced centers. Fifteen drill holes have been completed at Santa Amaro, 13 at Trapia I, 18 at Trapia West and 64 on the Cedro I through Cedro IV prospects. Drill spacing on these latter four prospects range from 50 to 200 meters. Although significant mineralized material was encountered in many of the drill holes within these nine deposits, PBM has not undertaken a formal estimate of reserves or resources as we believe additional work is required to make such an estimate.
The inability to resample the drilling of the Rio Tinto core holes has reduced the confidence which would normally be attributed to these results. However, one twin hole drilled next to a Rio Tinto hole at Esbarro showed excellent reproducibility of results, suggesting these results may be accepted as reasonably accurate. However, in order to establish a resource or reserve, additional twin holes and/or infill holes may be necessary to provide a degree of confidence commensurate with assignment to these categories.
8. Sampling.Analysis and Security of Samples
Rock sampling at Pedra Branca generally employed the use of composite surface samples, which are representative aggregates of available material from an outcrop or sub-cropping body collected on the surface. Selective sampling was occasionally used to identify the geochemical character of a rock not representative of an outcrop. This technique represents a small percentage of the total samples collected. Soil samples were collected of soil horizons thought to be derived from the decomposition of underlying bedrock. Soils were screened to -80 mesh prior to pulverization. Stream sediment geochemistry has been applied to both active wet stream beds and dry stream beds. Panned concentrate sampling of both dry and wet stream beds has been effectively utilized on a regional basis.
<PAGE>
No known significant factors relating to sampling, drilling or recovery exist that are thought to have an impact on interpreted results. Core recovery is rarely less than 90%, but such cases are sufficiently uncommon as to not have an adverse effect on the interpretation of results.
Assays results for the Rio Tinto and Gencore core samples cannot be checked, as the core is not available for resampling. For all other samples we have collected, assaying for PGM was done by Bondar Clegg Laboratories of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada or its successor, ALS Chemex Laboratories prior to 2008. Since early 2008 assaying for PGM was done by SGS Laboratories. All of our programs have been, and will continue to be conducted under a program of standards assaying and check assay of selected samples are periodically sent to a third party laboratory (Lakefield Laboratories, SGS Laboratories or ALS Chemex Laboratories).
Core samples are transported to the field camp in sealed core boxes where processing takes place under the supervision of the geologist in charge. Potentially mineralized core samples are sawed on site into two halves, one submitted to the laboratory and one kept in a secure location on site. The half-core, selected according to geologic criteria or regularly spaced intervals, is sent by land or air to the sample preparation laboratory in Belo Horizonte, Brazil operated by SGS Laboratories. The samples are sealed on site under the supervision of the geologist in charge and the laboratory is instructed to report any breaks in the seal to the Project Manager. No such security breaches have been noted since Solitario or PBM has been in operation of the project.
9. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
There are no reported reserves.
10. Mining Operations
There are no current mining operations associated with this project.
11. Planned Exploration
Drilling that was originally scheduled for mid-2010 did not get started until late-November. This delay pushed much of the planned 2010 drilling program into 2011. PBM now anticipates completing the planned 25-hole, 2,000-meter core drilling program sometime in April 2011. Additional exploration, including drilling, for the remainder of 2011, is still in the planning stages and subject to funding approval by Anglo.
Pachuca Real Silver-Gold Property (Mexico)
1. Property Description and Location
The Pachuca-Real property consists of approximately 31,000 hectares of mineral rights encompassing about 10% of the historic Pachuca-Real del Monte silver-gold mining district of central Mexico, but mainly areas situated to the north and northwest of the historic district, termed the North District, and areas east of the historic district. Solitario owns 100% of the property, except for the 6,240-hectare El Cura claim, that is subject to an Option to Purchase agreement with a private Mexican party completed in October 2005. The option requires payments of $500,000 over four years for a 100% interest in the claim. Solitario has made payments totaling $120,000 through December 31, 2010. In May 2009 we amended the option agreement. Under the revised terms, Solitario is required to pay $15,000 every six months, starting in May of 2009, to the underlying owner to keep the option in good standing. By May of 2012, Solitario must either exercise the option to acquire 100% interest in the concession by paying the underlying owner $500,000, or the option will terminate. Solitario may terminate its option at anytime without any further costs. Concession fees to be paid to the government of Mexico totaling approximately $82,000 are due in 2011 and will be funded by our joint venture partner. Additionally, $30,000 is due in option payments to private individuals in 2011 in order to keep properties in good standing, if so elected, of which 100% will be funded by our joint venture partner. Certain other properties are under application for title by Solitario which may be granted during 2011. If these titles are granted then concession payments will be due to the government of Mexico. Those titles under application, if granted, are estimated to cost less than $5,000 in 2011.
<PAGE>
On September 25, 2006 we signed a definitive venture agreement regarding the Pachuca project (the "Venture Agreement") with Newmont de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. ("Newmont"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation. The Venture Agreement called for a work commitment by Newmont of $12.0 million over 54 months to earn a 51% interest in the property. Newmont had the right to earn an additional 19% interest (70% total) by completing a feasibility study and by financing Solitario's 30% interest in construction costs. In December 2008 Newmont terminated its right to earn an interest in the property. Solitario retained a 100% interest in the Pachuca Real property.
On April 27, 2010, Solitario signed a definitive Venture Agreement with Compaia de Minas Buenaventura S.A.A. ("Buenaventura"). The Agreement calls for a firm work commitment by Buenaventura of $2.0 million over the first 18 months. To earn a 51% interest in the project, Buenaventura must complete the following work commitment schedule:
Exploration Expenditures and Due Dates
Amount
Aggregate Amount
18 months from signing - firm commitment
$2,000,000
$2,000,000
30 months from signing - optional commitment
$2,300,000
$4,300,000
42 months from signing - optional commitment
$3,500,000
$7,800,000
54 months from signing - optional commitment
$4,200,000
$12,000,000
Buenaventura will have the right to earn an additional 14% (total 65%) by completing a positive feasibility study for the project. During the feasibility stage, Buenaventura is required to spend a minimum of $5.0 million annually until such time as the positive feasibility study is completed. Buenaventura has the right to terminate the agreement at anytime following its firm initial work commitment.
Upon completion of the feasibility study, Solitario will have the option to self-finance its 35%-participating interest in the project, or to have Buenaventura fund its portion of construction costs at Libor + 3%. If Solitario elects to have Buenaventura fund its portion of construction costs, then Solitario's participating interest will be 30% and Buenaventura interest will be 70%. Buenaventura will be repaid for its funding plus interest from 80% of Solitario's 30% interest in the distribution of earnings from the Pachuca project.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The project is located about 80 kilometers north of Mexico City near the city of Pachuca. Access is excellent throughout much of the project area with moderately maintained gravel roads. The city of Pachuca, with excellent modern infrastructure, lies in the southern portion of the property. The project topography ranges in elevation from 2,100 to 3,000 meters. The climate ranges from semi-arid in the lower elevations, which tend to be sparsely vegetated; to temperate in the higher elevations, that tend to be well-forested.
3. History
The Pachuca district has a long, nearly unbroken history of silver and gold production beginning somewhere around 1550 by the Spaniards, although it is generally thought that pre-Hispanic smelting of Pachuca ores occurred by the indigenous population inhabiting the area. Total silver production during this five and a half-century period is estimated at approximately 1.4 billion ounces of silver and more than seven million ounces of gold. Nearly 80% of its total production occurred during a 60-year period from 1900 to 1960. Mining in the old district ceased in 2004 due to the depletion of ore reserves. Our claim position, predominantly situated north of the historic district, was held by the Mexican government from 1947 to the early 1990's, whereupon the concessions were sold to a private Mexican company and held by that same company until early 2006, when the land became free to staking. We immediately applied, and were granted, title to the concessions.
<PAGE>
4. Geological Setting
The geology of the Pachuca-Real project area is dominated by a thick sequence of Tertiary-aged volcanic and volcanic-related rock formations of dominantly andesitic composition. This thick pile of volcanic rocks is cut by a series of younger east-west trending and northwest-southeast trending quartz porphyry and dacite porphyry dikes. The volcanic rocks are gently dipping on a regional scale, but locally display moderate dips of up to 40 degrees. In the old district, structures typically have a west-northwest to east-southeast trend, except in the Real del Monte area that has a north-south trend. Basement rocks within the project area consist of Cretaceous-aged sedimentary rocks. Overlying the thick andesitic pile of volcanic rocks is another sequence of volcanic and volcanic-related rocks that are thin to moderately thick formations of primarily dacitic composition. These rocks are generally post-mineralization in age.
5. Prior Exploration
The old Pachuca-Real del Monte mining district has been intensely explored and mined throughout its long history, but this is not the area of our current exploration focus. We believe the area of greatest potential lies about 10 kilometers north of the main district and an area immediately east of the historic district. Exploration in this area (North District) during the past 60 years was restricted to mainly surface sampling with a very limited amount of drilling and tunneling. We compiled all the historical data that we were able to obtain and conducted a limited surface rock and soil sampling program in the first half of 2006, prior to Newmont becoming our joint venture partner. Newmont accelerated the surface sampling program and also conducted detailed geologic mapping to define drill targets. Newmont collected a total of 2,865 geochemical samples from outcrops, dumps, old mine workings, and channel samples. Newmont completed two campaigns of core drilling from mid-2007 to mid-2008, believed to have been the first ever drilling by a modern exploration company in the North District. In 2010, Buenaventura collected approximately 1,700 geochemical samples from the surface and existing underground workings.
6. Mineralization
The old Pachuca-Real del Monte mining district is a classic large-scale vein district nearly 11 kilometers in an east-west direction and 7 kilometers in a north-south direction. Hundreds of near-vertical veins associated with fractures, faults and dikes occur throughout the district. The major veins have productive stopes in excess of a kilometer in length, up to 600 meters in vertical extent and 2-5 meters in average width. The veins are characterized by low sulfide and base metal content and weak wallrock alteration. Historical average grades for the district are 500 g/t silver and 2.5 g/t gold.
In the North District, a major 15-kilometer long east-west fault system, the "Arevalo trend," localizes mineralization along fractures and dikes. The largest historic mines in the North District, the Arevalo mine near the town of El Chico and the Capula mine further west, partially exploited this large potential area of mineralization. Further north, a major series of east-west and northwest-southeast trending veins occupy an area over 12 kilometers long and 7 kilometers wide. South of the Arevalo trend, on its western extent, another series of east-west and northwest-southeast trending veins occurs. In total, Newmont identified, geologically mapped and sampled 38 separate vein target areas as defined by geologically mappable trends of at least 700 meters in strike length. The geology, alteration and style of mineralization in the North District are very similar to that of the historic district to the south.
7. Drilling
In 2009 we obtained a limited amount of underground drilling records thought to date to the 1930's for a limited area in the North District west of the Arevalo mine and also east of the historic district. Although this information indicates very interesting grades of mineralization, we cannot verify its accuracy at this time. This is the only historical drill data we know of prior to Newmont's involvement. Newmont tested 11 different target areas in 2007 and 2008 by completing 19 core holes totaling 7,873 meters. Ten of the holes intersected significant mineralization in six different prospects. Better intercepts included:
<PAGE>
Prospect Name
Drill Hole
From/To
Interval (m)*
Au g/t
Ag g/t
San Juan Gallo
PAC-08
210.4 - 212.95
2.55
0.17
37.0
266.4 - 267.3
0.90
2.03
754.0
El Escribano
PAC-09
129.3 - 129.9
0.6
0.19
144.0
245.0 -245.5
0.5
0.75
468.0
300.4 - 301.4
1.0
0.09
63.8
323.3 - 323.8
0.5
0.26
163.0
Tierras Colorados
PAC-10
380.3 - 381.7
1.4
0.03
119.3
Investigadora
PAC-11
314.4 - 315.25
0.85
1.28
173.0
San Juan Gallo
PAC-13
142.85 - 145.0
2.15
0.29
87.1
156.9 - 158.85
1.95
0.63
144.67
158.4 - 158.85
0.45
1.98
335.0
235.0 - 236.0
1.0
0.44
141.8
San Juan Gallo
PAC-17
234.75 - 237.5
2.75
0.16
86.4
El Escribano
PAC-18
73.1 - 73.4
0.3
1.37
274.65 - 276.05
1.4
1.00
458.4
* True thickness has not been determined and could be substantially less than the drill thickness for some intervals.
8. Sampling, Analysis and Security of Samples
From September 2006 to December 2008, Newmont controlled all field activities on the project and was responsible for the security of samples. Newmont has indicated to us that there were been no breaches in the security of the samples. We retained control of all samples from December 2008 to April 27, 2010, and believe that adequate procedures were in place to ensure the security and integrity of samples. Buenaventura has controlled all field activities since we signed the joint venture agreement on April 27, 2010 and we are not aware of any breaches in sample security since that time.
9. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
There are no reported reserves or resources.
10. Mining Operations
There are no current mining operations associated with this project.
11. Planned Exploration
Buenaventura plans to continue surface exploration in 2011 consisting of mapping and sampling of vein structures on the property and rehabilitation of selected underground workings based on results of surface mapping. Additionally, a surface drilling program began in February 2011; however, the scope of this program has yet to be defined.
Chambara Zinc Property (Peru)
In September of 2006, we acquired 3,700 hectares of 100%-owned mineral rights through concessions for our Chambara (formerly called Amazonas) property in northern Peru. We formerly held 300 hectares in the project since 1997. In 2007 we acquired new concessions covering an additional 5,600 hectares at the Chambara project. At December 31, 2007, the Chambara project consisted of six widely spaced areas where previous sampling had identified high-grade zinc mineralization at surface similar to that found at Florida Canyon, discussed above under our Bongara zinc property. The land holdings consisted of 13 concessions totaling 9,600 hectares,
On April 4, 2008 we signed the Minera Chambara shareholders' agreement with Votorantim Metais Cajamarquilla, S.A., a wholly owned subsidiary of Votorantim Metais (both companies referred to as "Votorantim") for the exploration of a large area of interest in northern Peru measuring approximately 200 by 85 kilometers. Votorantim is the project manager, funds and conducts all exploration on the project. Votorantim contributed 52 mineral concessions within the area of interest totaling 52,000 hectares to Minera Chambara for a 15% interest in Minera Chambara. We contributed 9,600 hectares of mineral claims and certain exploration data in our possession for an 85% interest in Minera Chambara. Existing and future acquired properties subject to the terms of the shareholders' agreement will be held by Minera Chambara. As of December 31, 2010, Minera Chambara's only assets are the properties and Minera Chambara has no debt. Votorantim may increase its shareholding interest to 49% by expending $6,250,000 over seven years and may increase its interest to 70% by funding a feasibility study and providing for construction financing for Solitario's interest. If Votorantim provides such construction financing, we would repay that financing, including interest, from 80% of Solitario's portion of the project cash flow.
<PAGE>
In 2010, Votorantim placed the project on care and maintenance, focusing all of their efforts on the Bongara project. The only field work conducted in 2010 and planned for 2011 is social work in preparation for any future exploration programs. In 2009 Votorantim compiled existing geochemical and geologic information to prioritize areas for future work. One drill hole was completed in late 2008. Also in 2009, Votorantim added and dropped various concessions. Minera Chambara now controls 185 concessions totaling approximately 162,000 hectares of mineral rights. In June, 2011 payments of approximately $488,000 to the Peruvian government will be due in order to maintain the mineral rights.
Newmont Alliance (Peru)
On January 18, 2005, we signed a Strategic Alliance Agreement (the "Alliance Agreement") with Newmont Overseas Exploration Limited ("Newmont"), to explore for gold in South America (the "Strategic Alliance"). Prior to the definitive agreement, we had signed a Letter of Intent on November 17, 2004, with Newmont. Concurrent with the signing of the Alliance Agreement, Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada purchased 2.7 million shares of Solitario (at the time, an approximately 9.9% equity interest) for Cdn$4,590,000. As part of the Alliance Agreement we spent $3,773,000 on exploration on Strategic Alliance areas covered by the Alliance Agreement. Under the terms of the Alliance Agreement, we granted Newmont a 2% net smelter royalty on five properties ("Strategic Alliance Properties") that fall within Strategic Alliance areas. If we meet certain minimum exploration expenditures on Strategic Alliance Properties, Newmont will have the right to joint venture acquired properties and earn up to a 75% interest by taking the project through feasibility and financing Solitario's retained 25% interest into production. Newmont may elect to earn a lesser interest or no interest at all, in which case it would retain its 2% net smelter return royalty.
As of December 31, 2010 we retain four property positions that fell within Strategic Alliance areas and are subject to the provisions of the Newmont Alliance as discussed above. These include the La Promesa, Paria Cruz, Excelsior and Cerro Azul properties. The Cerro Azul property was staked in 2007, the La Promesa, Paria Cruz, and Excelsior properties were staked in early 2008. All four properties are 100%-owned, subject to the Alliance Agreement, and are situated within the central Peru mineral belt that is proximal to the giant Cerro de Pasco silver-base metal district.
During 2010, we recorded a mineral property write-down on Strategic Alliance Properties of $16,000 for the Santiago property and $28,000 related to the Cajatambo property.
1. La Promesa
The La Promesa property, acquired in 2008, consists of three concessions totaling 2,600 hectares. No payments are due to third parties so the only holding costs for the mineral rights are annual payments of three dollars per hectare to the Peruvian government during the first six years that the claims are held.
The property represents a new Solitario surface discovery. At least five high-grade polymetallic veins have been identified and sampled at surface. Although sampling on the project is limited to date, it is encouraging. Two of the veins, about 300 meters apart, have been traced for at least 400 meters along strike. There appears to be a systematic trend towards greater vein thickness with depth, as the widest observed vein in outcrop occurs at the lowest elevation sampled to date. Channel sampling along 300 meters of strike length from the best exposed vein yielded the following high-grade results:
Chip Channel
True
Silver
Zinc
Lead
Indium
Number
Width
grams/t
%
%
grams/t
A
2.8
19.4
7.2
B
1.1
21.0
2.4
C
0.5
10.5
6.3
D
0.4
10.2
10.8
E
1.0
5.9
3.4
F
1.2
33.1
5.6
During 2010, our efforts were exclusively directed towards social work in order to obtain community approval for exploration activities in 2011. If an agreement is reached with the community, additional surface work to further define drill targets is planned, followed by an initial ten-hole, 1,200 meter drilling program, pending receipt of drilling permits.
<PAGE>
2. Cerro Azul
The Cerro Azul property acquired in 2007 consists of three concessions totaling 2,400 hectares. The geology of the property consists of Tertiary volcanics cut by a system of parallel quartz veins. Veins are up to two meters wide and can be traced along strike up to 1.2 kilometers. Some of the veins are polymetallic in character, within a low-sulfidation geologic environment. Other veins are gold-rich and locally occur in sheeted zones of up to 80 meters in width. During 2010 a number of drill targets were identified for vein targets and one of the sheeted vein types. Permitting is in progress to obtain approvals necessary to complete a diamond drilling program of up to 2,000 meters by mid-year 2011.
3. Excelsior
The Excelsior property, acquired in 2008, consists of two concessions totaling 2,000 hectares. The geology of the property consists of a sequence of metamorphosed Ordovician sedimentary formations. Mineralization consists of gold-bearing massive and stockwork quartz-iron replacements associated with an intrusive dike in phyllites. The quartz replacements can be traced intermittently over a length of eight kilometers and a width of up to one kilometer. Mineralization is also associated with regional faulting along the hinge of an anticline. During 2010 surface work was conducted that identified a trend of better defined mineralization that may represent a bulk mineable target. During 2011 we plan to review the results of the 2010 program and determine what additional work is required, if any.
4. Paria Cruz
The Paria Cruz property consists of three concessions totaling 3,000 hectares staked in the first half of 2008. No payments are due to third parties so the only holding costs for the mineral rights are annual payments of three dollars per hectare to the Peruvian government during the first six years that the claims are held. The geology of the property consists of Tertiary-aged volcanics and intrusive rocks. Quartz-tourmaline breccia dikes cut these rocks and appear to partially control gold and base metal mineralization. Surface work was done in 2010 to potentially define drill targets. These results are under review to determine what additional work is warranted, if any.
Royalty Properties
Yanacocha Royalty Property (Peru)
The Yanacocha royalty property consists of 69 concessions totaling approximately 61,000 hectares in northern Peru, 25 kilometers north of the city of Cajamarca. The property position consists of a rectangular-shaped contiguous block of concessions nearly 50 kilometers long in an east-west direction and 25 kilometers wide in a north-south direction. The southern boundary of the royalty property abuts Newmont Mining Corporation's Minera Yanacocha mining operation, a large gold mine currently in operation.
The majority of concessions were acquired in 1993, with several concessions added in 1994 and 1995. We conducted regional surface exploration on the property in 1994 and 1995, which included a limited core-drilling program on two gold targets. At various times between 1995 and 1999, we joint ventured the property with three major mining companies, Barrick Gold Corporation, Rio Tinto, Ltd., and Placer Dome, Inc. All three companies conducted limited surface exploration programs and each elected to terminate its respective option to earn an interest in the property. Barrick Gold Corporation was the only company to conduct exploration drilling on the property.
We held the concessions until April 2000, at which time we signed an agreement with Newmont Peru, Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation (both companies referred to as "Newmont"), whereby we sold our Yanacocha Property to Newmont for $6,000,000 and a sliding scale net smelter return royalty ("NSR-Royalty") that varied from two to five percent, depending on the price of gold.
In 2004, the Peruvian government implemented a national net smelter return royalty on gold that ranges from 1 to 3 percent, depending upon the total annual revenue from an operation. The top royalty rate applies to operations that produce in excess of $120 million in annual revenues. Operations producing between $60 million to $120 million in annual revenues are subject to a two percent royalty, while a one percent royalty is imposed on smaller operations of less than $60 million in annual revenues.
<PAGE>
In January 2005, we signed an Amended and Restated Royalty Grant with Minera Los Tapados S.A., a subsidiary of Newmont Peru Limited, Minera Yanacocha S.R.L., and Minera Chaupiloma Dos de Cajamarca, S.R.L. (affiliates of Newmont Peru, Ltd., collectively "Newmont Peru") to modify the NSR-Royalty schedule that recognizes the impact that Peru's national NSR-Royalty has on the exploration and development of new mining operations. The modified royalty structure is classified into several categories, depending on the type of process used to recover each metal, gold and copper prices, as well as any government royalty burden imposed by Peru on the project ores. The following summarizes the revised royalty structure:
Heap leach ores: For gold recovered by heap leach processing, the lesser of the sliding scale royalty set out below (the "Base Rate"), or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid in Peru is no more than 5.25% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 5.75% NSR.
Base Rate
:
Gold price/oz.
NSR Royalty
Less than $320
Equal to or greater than $320 and less than $360
Equal to or greater than $360 and less than $400
Equal to or greater than $400
2%
3%
4%
5%
Dore end-product, non-flotation mill ores:
For gold recovered as dore in a non-flotation mill, the lesser of the Base Rate, or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid in Peru is no more than 4.5% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 5% NSR. Concentrate-producing, Cu-Au flotation mill ores: For gold and copper recovered in a concentrate producing, copper-gold flotation mill, the lesser of the Base Rate, or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid in Peru is no more than 3.5% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce and the copper price is greater than a PPI-indexed price of $1.50 per pound, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 4% NSR.
Silver: For silver, the lesser of 3% NSR, or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid Peru is no more than 4.5% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 5% NSR.
As part of the NSR-Royalty modification, Newmont Peru, through its subsidiaries and/or affiliates, agreed to spend an aggregate of $4.0 million on Solitario's royalty property during the next eight years. Details of the work commitment calls for the following expenditure schedule:
Period
Between 1/1/05 to 12/31/06
Between 1/1/07 to 12/31/08
Between 1/1/09 to 12/31/10
Between 1/1/11 to 12/31/12
Amount
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
Cumulative
$1,000,000
$2,000,000
$3,000,000
$4,000,000
Newmont has met all of its required expenditure requirements through December 31, 2010. No resources or reserves have been reported by Newmont, nor has any mining been conducted on the property,
<PAGE>
Mercurio Gold Property (Brazil)
www.solitarioxr.com.com/tapajos.html
The Mercurio Gold Property is located in Para State in Northern Brazil approximately 250 km south of the town of Itaituba. It consists of three exploration concessions totaling 8,476 hectares. An agreement dated March 14, 2005 with the underlying claim and surface rights holder provides for transfer of a 100% interest of the mineral estate to Solitario and payment by Solitario of approximately $350,000 over a period of 60 months. The owner retains a 1.5% NSR royalty that is subject to purchase by Solitario for approximately $1,220,000. All payments are made in local currency and the amounts in U.S. currency will fluctuate with exchange rates. On completion of all payments we will receive title to 1,500 hectares of surface rights. In 2009 we negotiated a suspension in payments to the claims owner until such time as title is received from the government for one of the claims. During 2009, $19,000 was paid under the terms of the contract.
In November 2010, Solitario signed a definitive agreement with Regent Holdings, Ltd. ("Regent"), whereby Regent has agreed to pay to Solitario $1,000,000 over the next four years, in the amounts of $50,000, $100,000, $200,000 and $650,000 beginning March 15, 2011 and on each anniversary of that date through March 15, 2014, and invest in minimum expenditure amounts totaling $900,000 over the same period. However, this schedule is dependent upon issuance by the Brazilian government of one of the titles comprising the property which is currently pending and has thus far not occurred. Therefore it is likely that the schedule will be postponed until such time as this title has been issued. Upon the completion of all payments, Regent will own Mercurio and Solitario will retain a 1.5% NSR royalty on all ounces of gold produced at Mercurio up to 2 million ounces and Solitario will retain a 2.0% NSR royalty on all ounces of gold produced at Mercurio over 2 million ounces. Regent may terminate the agreement at any time after six months from the date of signing the agreement. Regent will be responsible for all payments to keep the Mercurio claims in good standing during the period of the agreement. No mineral reserves or resources are reported on the property. With exception of small scale artisanal mining for gold by gravity methods that has been conducted on the property for ten years, there are no mining operations on the property. Regent plans to conduct only limited surface exploration on the Mercurio property until a key concession title has been issued as discussed above.
La Tola Royalty Property (Peru)
In October 2003, we acquired the La Tola project in southern Peru to explore for gold and possibly silver. The project is located in southern Peru. In April 2004, we signed a Letter Agreement with Newmont Peru, whereby Newmont Peru could earn a 51%-interest in the La Tola property by completing $7.0 million of exploration over four years and an additional 14% interest by completing a feasibility study and by arranging 100% project financing. On June 22, 2005, Newmont Peru informed Solitario that it had elected to terminate its option to earn an interest in the La Tola project and Solitario recorded an $18,000 impairment related to the La Tola project. We retained one claim covering 1,000 hectares.
In February 2011 we signed a definitive agreement with Estrella Gold Corp. (EGC), successor to Canadian Shield Resources allowing EGC to earn a 100%-interest in the property, subject to a 2% NSR royalty to our benefit. To earn its interest, EGC is required to spend $2.0 million in exploration by December 31, 2015. EGC has the right to purchase the 2% NSR royalty for $1.5 million anytime before commercial production is reached. Because the agreement with EGC provides that our ending interest in La Tola will be a 2% NSR royalty, rather than a working interest, we currently classify the La Tola gold property as a royalty property interest.
100%-Owned Properties
Atico
In April 2010 we acquired 1600 hectares by staking at the Atico property in southern Peru. Rock sampling has identified anomalous gold and copper values in skarn alteration of carbonate and intrusive rocks. Surface exploration will continue in 2011.
Norcan
In June 2010 we applied for 16,350 hectares of mineral rights in the state of Sonora north of the Cananea copper mine. We expect to receive title to all of this area in the first or second quarter of 2011. Geochemical and biogeochemical surveys in this area exhibit locally anomalous copper values. Most of the area is covered by recent gravel deposits. We plan additional surface sampling on the claims in 2011 and may seek a joint venture partner to advance the property more aggressively.
<PAGE>
Triunfo Gold-Silver-Lead-Zinc Property (Bolivia)
We signed an Option to Purchase a 100% interest in the mineral rights on the 256-hectare gold, silver, lead and zinc Triunfo property in Bolivia in July 2003. Amendments modifying the option were signed in March of 2004, September of 2005, June of 2006 and June of 2008. The option, as amended, calls for Solitario to spend up to $2.3 million on exploration activities over a five-year period and make payments to the underlying owners of up to $170,000 over the first four years, with an option for us to acquire a 100% interest in the property by making a one-time payment of $1.0 million by the fifth anniversary of the signing of the option. The June 2008 amendment to the contract suspends all future payments agreed to under the contract. For the right to suspend payments we are required to pay $5,000 per year until such time as we decide to continue exploration drilling. The first payment of the "stand-by" period was made on signing of the amendment and such suspension shall continue for so long as we pay $5,000 on the anniversary of the signing of the amendment. We may elect to terminate the option at anytime without any additional payment or work commitment obligations due to the underlying owner.
The project is located about 50 kilometers east of the Bolivian capital of La Paz at an elevation of approximately 4,500 meters. Access is gained by a well-maintained gravel road from La Paz. We have completed construction of a 2.5-kilometer road to the property. The project hosts a large mineralized area extending for at least 800 meters in length and up to 200 meters in width. Mineralization occurs as a stockwork zone of veining within a sequence of Paleozoic shales, siltstones and quartzites. Within the mineralized zone, surface sampling has returned elevated values of gold, silver, lead and zinc.
In mid-2007 we completed three core holes totaling 679 meters. All three holes intersected significant widths of low-grade polymetallic mineralization. Drill hole T-1 intersected 94.2 meters grading 0.65% lead, 0.39% zinc, 21.8 gpt silver and 0.39 gpt gold. We currently have the project on care and maintenance status until the political situation in Bolivia becomes sufficiently positive to justify a more significant exploration program.
Espanola (Bolivia)
We optioned the 1,800-acre Espanola gold-copper property in western Bolivia from a private third party in July 2008. The initial option payment was $5,000, with annual payments of $10,000 until drilling commences. Subsequent to the initiation of drilling, payments escalate over a five year schedule totaling $1,000,000 for acquisition of an 85% interest in the mineral rights on the property. For 2011, we are evaluating the possibility of drilling several holes. Our decision on whether or not to drill is mainly dependent upon final changes to the proposed new Bolivian mining law, prioritization with other projects and personnel, and the availability of a drill rig.
The geology of the Espanola property consists of Tertiary volcanic and sub-volcanic rocks that have been intensely altered over widespread areas. Geologic mapping and geochemical sampling were undertaken by a major mining company in 1993. A limited drilling program yielded several holes that intersected widespread anomalous gold and copper values.
Discontinued Projects
During the third quarter of 2010 we abandoned the Santiago prospect and recorded a mineral property write down of $16,000. The Santiago prospect was acquired in 2007 and consists of one mining concession totaling 1,000 hectares. We performed stream sediment sampling, rock chip channel sampling and reconnaissance geological mapping. Surface work was conducted and based on our exploration results the decision was made to abandon the project.
During the second quarter of 2010 we abandoned the Cajatambo, La Noria and Palmira properties and recorded a mineral property write down of $28,000, $6,000 and $5,000, respectively. The Cajatambo property consisted of eleven concessions totaling 10,500 hectares that was acquired in 2008 and 2009. Drilling was conducted in mid-2009 and based on the drilling results we elected to abandon the project on June 30, 2010. The La Noria property was staked in the second quarter of 2008. Surface work was conducted throughout 2009 and drilling was conducted in the first quarter of 2010. Based on the results of this drilling, we elected to abandon the project on June 30, 2010. The Palmira property was optioned in November 2009. Surface sampling, geological mapping, IP-geophysics and drilling were conducted in the first quarter of 2010. Based on the results of drilling, we elected to abandon the project on June 30, 2010.
<PAGE>
GLOSSARY OF MINING TERMS
"Amphibolite" means a metamorphic rock composed chiefly of amphibole and plagioclase and having little or no quartz.
"Assay" means to test minerals by chemical or other methods for the purpose of determining the amount of valuable metals contained.
"Bankable feasibility study"
means a comprehensive study of a mineral deposit in which all geological, engineering, legal, operating, economic, social, environmental and other relevant factors are considered in sufficient detail that it could reasonably serve as the basis for a final decision by a financial institution to finance the development of the deposit for mineral production. "Breccia" means rock consisting of fragments, more or less angular, in a matrix of finer-grained material or of cementing material.
"Claim or Concession" means a mining interest giving its holder the right to prospect, explore for and exploit minerals within a defined area.
"Clastic" means pertaining to rock or rocks composed of fragments or particles of older rocks or previously existing solid matter; fragmental.
"Chromite" means a cubic mineral, ferrous chromate, usually with much of the ferrous iron and aluminum replaced by magnesium, and some of the chromium by ferric iron: the principal ore of chromium.
"Cut-off grade" means the grade below which mineralized material will be considered waste.
"Dacite or Dacitic" means a fine-grained volcanic rock of intermediate composition between mafic and felsic.
"Deposit" means an informal term for an accumulation of mineral ores.
"Development"
means work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual ore extraction possible. "Dolomite" means calcium magnesium carbonate, CaMg (CO 3 ) 2 , occurring in crystals and in masses.
"Dunite"
means a coarse-grained igneous rock composed almost entirely of olivine. "Facies" means
the appearance and characteristics of a sedimentary deposit, especially as they reflect the conditions and environment of deposition and serve to distinguish the deposit from contiguous deposits. "Fault" means a fracture in rock along which there has been displacement of the two sides parallel to the fracture.
"gpt" means grams per tonne.
"Heap leach" means a gold extraction method that percolates a cyanide solution through ore heaped on an impervious pad or base.
'Hornfels" means
a fine-grained metamorphic rock, the result of recrystallization of siliceous or argillaceous sediments by contact metamorphism. "Host rock"
means the rock surrounding an ore deposit. "Karst" means a landscape that is characterized by the features of solution weathering and erosion in the subsurface. These features include caves, sinkholes, disappearing streams, subsurface drainage and deeply incised narrow canyons.
"Mafic" means silicate minerals or rocks that are rich in magnesium and iron. Most mafic minerals are dark in color with a high density. "Magnetometric" means the results from an analysis utilizing a magnetometer, an instrument for measuring the intensity of a magnetic field, in this case, the earth's magnetic field.
"M
anto deposits" means replacement orebodies that are stratabound, irregular to rod shaped ore occurrences usually horizontal or near horizontal in attitude. "
Metasomatic" means rocks that form from a series of metamorphic processes whereby chemical changes occur as a result of the introduction of material, often in hot aqueous solutions, from external sources. "Mineralization" means the concentration of metals within a body of rock.
"NSR" means net smelter return royalty.
"Olivine" means
a group of magnesium iron silicates, (MgFe) 2 SiO 4 , occurring in olive-green to gray-green masses as an important constituent of basic igneous rocks. "opt"
or "oz/ton" means ounces per ton. "Ore" means material containing minerals that can be economically extracted.
"Ounce" means a troy ounce.
<PAGE>
"Oxide" means mineralized rock in which some of the original minerals have been oxidized (i.e., combined with oxygen). Oxidation tends to make the ore more porous and permits a more complete permeation of cyanide solutions so that minute particles of gold in the interior of the minerals will be more readily dissolved.
"Patented mining claim" means a mining claim for which the federal government of the United States has passed its title to the claimant, making it private land. A person may mine and remove minerals from a mining claim without a mineral patent. However, a mineral patent gives the owner exclusive title to the locatable minerals. It also gives the owner title to the surface and other resources.
"Peridotite" means a dense, dark-colored, coarse-grained igneous rock consisting mostly of the minerals olivine and pyroxene. Peridotite is ultramafic in composition and contains less than 45% silica, is high in magnesium and iron.
"Porphyry"
means an igneous, usually hard, rock with large crystals embedded in a finer groundmass of minerals. "Phyllites" means a slate-type rock, the cleavage planes of which have a luster imparted by minute scales of mica.
"Reserves" or "ore reserves" mean that part of a mineral deposit, which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
"Sampling" means selecting a fractional, but representative, part of a mineral deposit for analysis.
"Sediment" means solid material settled from suspension in a liquid.
"Shales" means a fine-grained sedimentary rock consisting of compacted and hardened clay, silt, or mud that often form in many distinct layers and splits easily into thin sheets or slabs.
"Sphalerite" means
a very common mineral, zinc sulfide, usually containing some iron and a little cadmium, occurring in yellow, brown, or black crystals or cleavable masses with resinous luster and is the principal ore of zinc. "Stockwork" means a rock mass interpenetrated by multiple, tightly packed small veins of mineralization.
"
Stope" means an excavation in the form of steps made by the mining of ore from steeply inclined or vertical veins. "Stratigraphy" means the arrangement of rock strata, especially as to the geographic, chronologic order of sequence (age), classification, characteristics and formation.
"Strike", when used as a noun, means the direction, course or bearing of a vein or rock formation measured on a level surface and, when used as a verb, means to take such direction, course or bearing. "Stripping ratio" means the ratio of waste to ore in an open pit mine.
"Sulfide" means a compound of sulfur and some other element.
"Tailings" means material rejected from a mill after most of the valuable minerals have been extracted.
"Ton" means a short ton (2,000 pounds).
"Tonne" means a metric ton that contains 2,204.6 pounds or 1,000 kilograms.
"Vein" means a fissure, fault or crack in a rock filled by minerals that have traveled upwards from some deep source.
"Volcaniclastic" means clastic (made up of fragments of preexisting rocks) rock chiefly composed of volcanic material derived by ejection of volcanic material from a volcanic vent.
Item 3.