Item 2. Properties
Joint Ventures, Royalty and the Strategic Alliance Properties
Bongara Zinc Project (Peru)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Bongara Property)
The Bongara project consists of 16 concessions comprising 12,600 hectares of mineral rights granted to or under option to Minera Bongara S.A., a subsidiary of ours incorporated in Peru. The property is located in the Department of Amazonas, northern Peru. On August 15, 2006 Solitario signed a Letter Agreement with Votorantim Metais Cajamarquilla, S.A., a wholly owned subsidiary of Votorantim Metais (both companies referred to as "Votorantim"), on Solitario's 100%-owned Bongara zinc project. On March 24, 2007, Solitario signed a definitive agreement, the Framework Agreement for the Exploration and Potential Development of Mining Properties, (the "Framework Agreement") pursuant to, and replacing, the previously signed Bongara Letter Agreement with Votorantim Metais. Solitario's and Votorantim's property interests will be held through the ownership of shares in Minera Bongara S.A., a joint operating company that holds a 100% interest in the mineral rights and other project assets. Solitario currently owns 100% of the shares in Minera Bongara S.A..
Votorantim can earn up to a 70% shareholding interest in the joint operating company by funding an initial $1.0 million exploration program (completed), by completing future annual exploration and development expenditures until a production decision is made or the agreement is terminated. The option to earn the 70% interest can be exercised by Votorantim any time after the first year commitment by committing to place the project into production based upon a feasibility study. The Framework Agreement calls for Votorantim to have minimum annual exploration and development expenditures of $1.5 million in each of years two and three which have been met as of December 31, 2009, and $2.5 million in all subsequent years until a minimum of $18.0 million has been expended by Votorantim. Votorantim is the project manager. Votorantim, in its sole discretion, may elect to terminate the option to earn the 70% interest at any time after the first year commitment. In addition, Votorantim is required to make annual rental payments of $100,000 to Solitario on August 15, 2007 (completed) and cash payments of $200,000 on August 15, 2008 and 2009 (completed), and by making further payments to Solitario of $200,000 on all subsequent anniversaries, until a production decision is made. Once Votorantim has fully funded its $18.0 million work commitment and committed to place the project into production based upon a feasibility study, it has further agreed to finance Solitario's 30% participating interest through production. Solitario will repay the loan facility through 50% of Solitario's cash flow distributions from the joint operating company.
According to Peruvian law, concessions may be held indefinitely, subject only to payment of annual fees to the government. Each year a payment of $3.00 per hectare must be made by the last day of June to keep the claims in good standing. Because some of the Bongara concessions are more than 6 years old beginning in 2005, there is a $6.00 surcharge per hectare, if less than $100 per hectare is invested in exploration and development of the claim. Peru also imposes a sliding scale net smelter return royalty (NSR) on all precious and base metal production. This NSR assesses a tax of 1% on all gross proceeds from production up to $60,000,000, a 2% NSR on proceeds between $60,000,000 and $120,000,000 and a 3% NSR on proceeds in excess of $120,000,000.
Votorantim signed a new surface rights agreement with the local community in 2009, which controls the surface of the primary area of interest of our Bongara joint venture. This agreement provides for an annual payment of $31,250 and funding for mutually agreed social development programs in return for the right to perform exploration work including road building and drilling. From time to time we enter into surface rights agreements with individual landowners or communities to provide access for exploration work. Generally, these are short term agreements. Votorantim is responsible for all joint venture costs as part of the Framework Agreement.
<PAGE>
Environmental permits are required for exploration and development projects in Peru that involve drilling, road building or underground mining. The requisite environmental and archeological studies were completed for all past work, but new studies are ongoing to allow for the expanded activities planned for 2010 and beyond. Although we believe that these permits will be obtained in a timely fashion, the timing of government approval of permits remains beyond our control.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The Bongara property is accessed by the paved Carretera Marginal road, which provides access from the coastal city of Chiclayo. The area of the majority of past drilling and the most prospective mineralization, Florida Canyon, is currently inaccessible by road, the work to date having been done by either foot or helicopter access. The nearest town is Pedro Ruiz located 15 kilometers southeast of the property and the Carretera Marginal is situated approximately eight kilometers south of the deposit. Votorantim is planning on initiating road access to the site in 2010. Votorantim maintains project field offices in Pedro Ruiz and a drill core processing facility and operations office in the nearby community of Shipasbamba. The climate is tropical and the terrain is mountainous and jungle covered. Seasonal rains hamper exploration work for four to five months of the year by limiting access. Several small villages are located within five kilometers of the drilling area.
3. History
We discovered the Florida Canyon mineralized zone of the Bongara Project in 1996. Subsequently, we optioned the property in December 1996 to Cominco. Cominco withdrew from the joint venture in February 2001. We maintained the most important claims from 2001 to 2006, until the Votorantim Letter Agreement was signed. All of the significant work on the property has been conducted by Cominco, and more recently by Votorantim, and is described below in section 5, Prior Exploration.
4. Geological Setting
The geology of the Bongara area is relatively simple consisting of a sequence of Jurassic and Triassic clastic and carbonate rocks which are gently deformed. The Mississippi Valley type mineralization occurs in the carbonate facies of the Chambara (rock) Formation. This sedimentary sequence is part of what is referred to as the Pucura Group that hosts mineral deposits throughout Peru.
5. Prior Exploration
We conducted a regional stream sediment survey and reconnaissance geological surveys leading to the discovery of the Florida Canyon area in 1996. The discovered outcropping mineralization is located in two deeply incised canyons within the limestone stratigraphy.
Subsequent to our initial work, Cominco conducted extensive mapping, soil and rock sampling, stream sediment surveys and drilling. This work was designed to determine the extent and grade of the zinc-lead mineralization, the controls of deposition and to identify area of potential new mineralization. All work performed by us, Cominco or Votorantim was done by direct employees of the respective companies with the exception of the drilling which was performed by Bradley Drilling Co.
6. Mineralization
Mineralization occurs as massive to semi-massive replacements of sphalerite and galena localized by specific sedimentary facies (rock strata) within the limestone stratigraphy and by structural feeders and karst breccias. A total of eleven preferred beds for replacement mineralization have been located within the middle unit of the Chambara Formation. Mineralization is associated with the conversion of limestone to dolomite, which creates porosity and permeability within the rock formations, promoting the passage of mineralizing fluids through the rock formations forming stratigraphically controlled manto deposits. Drilling of stratigraphic targets has shown that certain coarser bioclastic or pseudo-breccia facies of the stratigraphy are the best hosts for mineralization.
Karst features are localized along faults and locally produce "breakout zones" where mineralization may extend vertically across thick stratigraphic intervals along the faults where collapse breccias have been replaced by ore minerals. Mineralized karst structures are up to fifty meters in width. The stratigraphically controlled mineralization is typically one to several meters in thickness but locally attains thicknesses of eight to ten meters. Generally the stratigraphic mineralization, while thinner, is of higher grade and laterally more extensive. Evidence for these breakout zones are provided by the following drill holes from various locations on the property:
<PAGE>
Breakout
Zone Name
Drill Hole
Number
Intercepts
(meters)
Zinc
%
Lead
%
Zinc+Lead
%
Sam
GC-17
FC-23
58.8
81.5
12.0
4.8
2.8
0.8
14.8
5.6
Karen
A-1*
36.2
12.8
2.7
15.5
North Zone
V-21
92.0
5.5
1.7
7.2
South Zone
V-44
V-169
28.3
51.6
15.2
7.1
0.8
0.7
16.0
7.8
The middle unit of the Chambara formation, where mineralized, is commonly dolomitized within the zone of highest sedimentary-induced permeability. Dolomitization reaches stratigraphic thicknesses in excess of 100 meters locally. This alteration is thought to be related to the mineralizing event in most cases and is an important exploration tool. Continuity of the mineralization is thought to be demonstrable in areas of highest drilling density by correlation of mineralization within characteristic sedimentary facies typical of specific stratigraphic intervals.
7. Drilling
A total of 205 diamond drill holes (HQ and NQ size) have been completed by Cominco and Votorantim since the project's inception. These holes vary in depth up to 610 meters. Total meters drilled through the end of 2009 are 60,572 meters. A summary of drilling by year is provided in the table below:
Operator
Year
Number of Holes
Meters Drilled
Cominco
Pre-2006
24,696
Votorantim
4,354
11,443
16,468
3,611
Project Total
60,572
The mineralized area that has been drilled measures approximately two by two kilometers. Votorantim's drilling has been predominantly infill drilling designed to better define mineralization and demonstrate continuity. This infill drilling program has served to better define the quality and spatial distribution of mineralization, but additional infill drilling will be required to establish reserves. All drilling was done by a LF-70 core-drilling rig.
8. Sampling and Analysis
Rock samples taken were composited from mineralization or alteration within an outcrop. The samples were pulverized and analyzed by Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP) for a variety of elements including zinc and lead. Soil samples were screened to - minus 80 mesh prior to pulverization and analysis by ICP.
Core samples were transported from the drill by helicopter in sealed boxes to the processing facility in Shipasbamba where they were split by a diamond saw. Half of the core was taken of intervals selected according to geologic criteria under the supervision of the geologist in charge and shipped in sealed bags by land. Cominco used SGS Laboratories and Votorantim used ALS-Chemex, both in Lima, Peru, where all samples were analyzed by ICP. Any samples that contained greater than 1% zinc were then analyzed by wet chemistry assay for zinc and lead to provide a more accurate analysis of grade.
It was found that ICP systematically underestimated the true grade in high-grade samples in excess of 1% zinc. This systematic error varies according to grade with the higher samples having the largest error. The average error of all reported core results for ICP was approximately 10% below the true grade. All grades reported to the public have been based on assay rather than geochemical techniques in order to represent the most accurate data possible.
9. Security of Samples
Since August 2006, Votorantim has been in control of all field activities on the project and is responsible for the security of samples. Votorantim has indicated to us that there have been no breaches in the security of the samples. We have reviewed Votorantim's sampling procedures and believe that adequate procedures are in place to ensure the future security and integrity of samples. No breaches of security of samples are known to have occurred prior to Votorantim's work on the project.
10. Feasibility Studies
Votorantim is currently working on scoping-level studies to provide order-of-magnitude estimates of deposit size and grade, sizing of appropriate scale of operations, infrastructure and operating cost estimates.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
There are no reported mineral reserves or resources.
11. Mining Operations
No mining operations have occurred on the project.
<PAGE>
12. Planned Exploration and Development
For 2010 Votorantim is planning to initiate road construction to the project area, underground access to the San Jorge zone of the Florida Canyon deposit, metallurgical testing and an aggressive continuation of surface drilling to further define mineralization.
The planned road construction encompasses approximately 23 kilometers of new road alignment to the deposit. To date, access to the deposit has occurred via helicopter and foot-trails. The initiation of 700 meters of underground access to mineralization is also scheduled for this field season. Initially the underground work will be supported by helicopter transportation of personnel and materials, until road access is completed. Construction of additional infrastructure near the underground portal site is planned for personnel and underground operations.
Advanced metallurgical testing will also be conducted on mineralized material to further evaluate metallurgical recovery and ore characterization. Finally, Votorantim is planning on completing approximately 10,000 meters of helicopter-assisted core drilling from the surface during 2010 to further define and extend mineralization. Timing of many of the aforementioned activities is substantially contingent upon obtaining permits required by the Peruvian government.
Pedra Branca Platinum Group Metals Project (Brazil)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Pedra Branca Property)
We are exploring the Pedra Branca property for platinum and palladium mineralization (platinum group metals, or "PGM"). At December 31, 2009, the Pedra Branca project consisted of 57 exploration concessions totaling approximately 70,000 hectares in Ceara State, Brazil. We have applied to the National Department of Mineral Production ("DNPM") to convert five exploration concessions to mining concessions. These applications are under review by the DNPM. Pedra Branca do Mineracao S.A. ("PBM"), a 70%-owned subsidiary of ours incorporated in Brazil, holds a 100%-interest in all concessions. Anglo Platinum Ltd. ("Anglo") owns a 30% interest in PBM as of December 31, 2009. Eldorado Gold Corporation is entitled to a 2% NSR royalty on 10 of the concessions totaling 10,000 hectares.
On January 28, 2003, we entered into a Letter Agreement with Anglo whereby Anglo could earn various incremental interests in PBM up to a 65% interest by making annually increasing exploration expenditures totaling $7.0 million, completing a bankable feasibility study, or spending an additional $10 million on exploration and development, whichever occurs first, and arranging financing to put the project into commercial production. The Letter Agreement was amended four times between July 2004 and April 2006, generally to extend various work commitment deadlines mandated in the Letter Agreement. On July 14, 2006, we signed the Pedra Branca Framework Agreement with Anglo that specified actions we and Anglo would take to establish and govern PBM, the corporate entity that now holds 100% title to all the assets of the Pedra Branca project, and the mechanics for Anglo's continued funding of Pedra Branca exploration.
On April 24, 2007, we signed the definitive agreement, the Shareholders Agreement, relating to the Pedra Branca Project in Brazil, pursuant to the previously signed Pedra Branca Letter Agreement with Anglo for the exploration and development of the Pedra Branca Project. The Shareholders Agreement provides for Solitario's and Anglo's property interests to be held through the ownership of shares in PBM. As part of the agreement, Anglo earned a 30% interest in PBM as of December 31, 2008, as a result of funding a total of $4.0 million on exploration at Pedra Branca. Anglo funded an additional $1.5 million for exploration during 2009. The Shareholders Agreement provides that Anglo may incrementally earn up to a 51% interest in PBM by spending a total of $7 million on exploration ($1.5 million in addition to the $5.5 million spent as of December 31, 2009) at Pedra Branca by December 31, 2010. However, Anglo is not required to fund any future exploration expenditures. Anglo can earn an additional 9% interest in PBM (for a total of 60%) by completing either (i) a bankable feasibility study or (ii) spending an additional $10.0 million on exploration or development, whichever comes first. Anglo can also earn an additional 5% interest in PBM (for a total of 65%) by arranging for 100% financing to put the project into commercial production.
We also entered into a Services Agreement with Anglo whereby Solitario (and/or our subsidiaries) would act as an independent contractor directing the exploration and administrative activities for PBM and its shareholders. Solitario receives a 5% management fee based upon total expenditures
We continued to prioritize our land holdings in 2009 and consequently reduced our holdings by 34 concessions totaling 50,000 hectares. Land payments for 2010 are projected to be approximately $84,000 including annual claim maintenance payments and smaller surface rights payments to local landowners. This amount may change due to the reduction or addition of properties, changes in planned drilling activities or a change in the currency exchange rate.
<PAGE>
The mineral interests currently held by us, through PBM, are subject to the mining regulations of Brazil. These rights are granted by the Brazilian government and administered by the National Department of Mineral Production ("DNPM"). To initially obtain mineral concessions from the DNPM, we must provide the DNPM with work plans and pay an initial fee of approximately $310 per concession depending upon the Brazil-U.S. exchange rate. To keep the concessions in good standing, we must continue to pay regular annual fees of $1.00 per hectare for the first three years and approximately $1.50 per hectare after the first three years and provide the DNPM with annual progress reports. We are subject to yearly inspections by the DNPM for compliance with reported plans and environmental regulations.
Exploration concessions are granted by the DNPM for a maximum period of three years with the right of the applicant to apply for an extension which may be granted for up to an additional three years. Upon expiration of the exploration concession the concessionaire must apply for conversion of the claim to a mining concession or abandon the property. We have applied for the conversion of five claims to mining concessions. Unlike exploration concessions, mining concessions do not expire but do have requirements for advancing feasibility and development work toward production. Approval of the conversion is at the discretion of the DNPM and we can give no assurance that the conversion of the concessions will be granted.
Prior to mining on the claims we must reach an agreement with the surface rights owners of the affected land. Additionally, we must pay a royalty to governmental agencies based on the materials produced. This amount is 0.2% of the sales for precious metals excluding gold, which is subject to a 3% royalty.
We currently hold no surface rights to the property but have entered into short-term agreements with the surface rights owners to compensate for exploration activities.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
Access to the project is by paved road from the state capital of Fortaleza in Ceara State and by local farm roads. Local access is constructed where necessary. The largest towns in the immediate vicinity of the project are Pedra Branca and Boa Viagem. A field camp is located at the small community of Capitao Mor. The climate is warm and dry for eight months of the year with a warm wet season prevailing for the remaining four months (December-March). Year-round operation can be conducted. The topography is rolling to flat and vegetation is sparse to heavy brush. The elevation ranges from 500 to 800 meters.
3. History
In the 1980's Rio Tinto Ltd., ("Rio Tinto") and Gencore, Ltd. ("Gencore") performed exploration work on part of the project now operated by us. Both companies did surface exploration and drilling, including 42 diamond drill holes by Rio Tinto and 8 diamond drill holes by Gencore on the former Eldorado lease. In October 2000, we completed a plan of arrangement (the "Plan of Arrangement") whereby we acquired Altoro Gold Corp. ("Altoro"). In 1999, Altoro had acquired concessions from the government over some of the property previously held by Rio Tinto. We acquired additional concessions in 2000 and 2001, through our subsidiary Altoro Mineracao, Ltda. to cover extensions of the mineralized trend.
Altoro, prior to the Plan of Arrangement with us, conducted surface work, drilled 18 diamond drill holes and entered into a Joint Venture agreement with Rockwell Ventures, Inc. ("Rockwell") of Vancouver, British Columbia. Rockwell conducted further surface exploration and drilled an additional 31 holes. Rockwell terminated its agreement with us in June 2001. From July 2001 until late-2002, we conducted geochemical sampling, geophysical surveys and independently drilled 22 diamond drill holes. From January 2003 to date, Anglo funded five drilling programs that focused on better defining the Esbarro and Curiu deposits, further testing the Cedro, Trapia and Santo Amaro prospects, and initial drill testing of 20 other target areas.
4. Geological Setting
The project lies within an Archean-aged block in the Brazilian shield, which is characterized by amphibolite grade metamorphic rocks of various compositions. The most common rock types in the area are unmineralized intermediate to felsic composition gneisses and granitic intrusive phases.
The PGM mineralization occurs in specific stratigraphic intervals within a segmented mafic-ultramafic layered complex. The mineralized intervals comprise concordant layers, originally of composition varying from peridotite to dunite. These layers contain chromite and/or minor sulfides of iron, copper and/or nickel. The primary silicate ultramafic minerals in the rocks have been variably converted to amphibole, serpentine or talc. A number of separate bodies of the ultramafic phases of the complex have been discovered, some of which contain the PGM-bearing stratigraphic intervals. All of the rocks have been folded and faulted to differing degrees during dynamic metamorphism in the area.
<PAGE>
5. Prior Exploration
Surface exploration conducted, initially by Altoro, and subsequently by Rockwell and then us, consists of:
Reconnaissance geologic mapping and rock sampling
Systematic line cutting, soil sampling and geologic mapping of lines
Ground magnetics and induced polarization ("IP") geophysical surveys
Stream sediment and panned-concentrate geochemistry
Diamond drilling of 25 prospect areas
All of the above work has been conducted directly by us, our predecessor or its partners with the exception of diamond drilling which was performed by Boart-Longyear Geoserv do Brasil, Major Drilling and Layne do Brazil Sondagens Ltda. Ground magnetometry was conducted primarily using a Scintrex Portable EnviMag or a Gem GSM-19 Overhauser hand-held magnetometer, with a base station for recording diurnal corrections. Magnetometric surveys are conducted by Solitario personnel. An internationally recognized third-party geophysical contractor conducted the IP survey. An independent geophysical consultant has been utilized to further interpret the magnetic and IP data.
Our surface work has generally been focused to identify outcroppings of ultramafic rocks, detect anomalous concentrations of PGM in soils or rocks and determine if magnetic minerals are present in bedrock. Soil and rock surveying conducted to date shows that both methods reliably reflect the location of outcropping and subcropping PGM mineralization. Detailed geologic mapping has been conducted over some of the known ultramafic rock outcroppings to determine the source of anomalous PGM values.
The targeted ultramafic rocks are generally more magnetic than the surrounding rocks and magnetometry has been shown to be effective at locating these bodies, though magnetometry and surface geochemical sampling does not determine the PGM content of an ultramafic body with certainty. IP geophysics is not consistently effective in detecting buried ultramafic bodies and elevated concentrations of sulfide minerals within bedrock.
We believe the data obtained from the above exploration activities to be reliable, however the nature of exploration mineral properties and analysis of geological information is subjective and data and conclusions are subject to uncertainty including invalid data as a result of many reasons, including sample contamination, analysis variation, extrapolation, undetected instrumentation malfunctions and the use of geologic and economic assumptions.
6. Mineralization
Approximately 25 prospects have been located within the project area. All of these identified prospects display either anomalous PGM values in soils or rocks and/or magnetic signatures indicating the presence of magnetic minerals. Drilling has intersected significant mineralization on thirteen of the prospects.
The stratigraphic layering of an ultramafic body controls the PGM content of the ultramafic rocks. In many cases the PGM grade is associated with the mineral chromite. In other areas the PGM is more closely related with minor sulfide concentration. However, the presence of either chromite or sulfides within ultramafic rocks does not assure elevated PGM grade.
Within PGM-enriched ultramafics, grade and thickness can vary considerably. Widths encountered vary from less than a meter to tens of meters in interpreted true thickness. In no location has drilling been conducted on spacing of sufficient density to assure the continuity necessary to define reserves. For this reason no representation can be made as to the probability of defining reserves.
7. Drilling
A total 318 holes totaling 23,811 meters of core drilling have been completed on the project to date. Of this, 3,217 meters were drilled by Rio Tinto and Gencore for which the core itself is not available, nor are the procedures documented under which the holes were completed.
Operator
Year
Number of Holes
Meters Drilled
Rio Tinto, Gencore
Pre-1999
3,320
Altoro
1999-2000
1,200
Rockwell
2,132
Solitario
2,363
Solitario*
3,993
2,466
3,251
1,839
3,247
Project Total
23,811
*funded by Anglo
<PAGE>
In the case of holes drilled by Altoro, Rockwell and us, the following procedures were followed. Drill holes were either of NQ (1 and 7/8 inch) or HQ (2 and 1/2 inch) diameter and were boxed in the field under the supervision of the geologist in charge. With the exception of weathered material near surface, at least 90% of the core had recoveries exceeding 90%. The core was transported to the field camp in sealed core boxes where processing took place under the supervision of the geologist in charge.
Based on drill results to date we believe the prospects Esbarro, Cedro I, II, III and IV, Curiu, Trapia I, Trapia West and Santo Amaro exhibit results warranting further definition drilling of high priority. We are planning on drilling additional targets in future programs.
The Esbarro prospect, with 107 holes, has the largest database of information of the drilled prospects. Drilling was conducted on approximately 50-meter spaced centers. The Curiu prospect is the second most detailed prospect drilled with 44 holes completed to date. Drilling was conducted on generally 25-meter spaced centers. Fifteen drill holes have been completed at Santa Amaro, 13 at Trapia I, 18 at Trapia West and 64 on the Cedro I through Cedro IV prospects. Drill spacing on these latter four prospects range from 50 to 200 meters. Although significant mineralized material was encountered in many of the drill holes within these nine deposits, we have not undertaken a formal estimate of reserves or resources as we believe additional work is required to make such an estimate.
The inability to resample the drilling of the Rio Tinto core holes has reduced the confidence which would normally be attributed to these results. However, one twin hole drilled next to a Rio Tinto hole at Esbarro showed excellent reproducibility of results. During the current exploration phase of the program, the Rio Tinto and Gencore results are accepted as accurately representing the sampled interval. However, in order to establish a resource or reserve, additional twin holes and/or infill holes may be necessary to provide a degree of confidence commensurate with assignment to these categories.
8. Sampling and Analysis
Rock sampling at Pedra Branca generally employed the use of composite surface samples, which are representative aggregates of available material from an outcrop or sub-cropping body collected on the surface. Selective sampling was occasionally used to identify the geochemical character of a rock not representative of an outcrop. This technique represents a small percentage of the total samples collected. Soil samples were collected of soil horizons thought to be derived from the decomposition of underlying bedrock. Soils were screened to -80 mesh prior to pulverization. Stream sediment geochemistry has been applied to both active wet stream beds and dry stream beds. Panned concentrate sampling of both dry and wet stream beds has been effectively utilized on a regional basis.
No known significant factors relating to sampling, drilling or recovery exist that are thought to have an impact on interpreted results. Core recovery is rarely less than 90%, but such cases are sufficiently uncommon as to not have an adverse effect on the interpretation of results.
Assays results for the Rio Tinto and Gencore core samples cannot be checked, as the core is not available for resampling. For all other samples we have collected, assaying for PGM was done by Bondar Clegg Laboratories of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada or its successor, ALS Chemex Laboratories prior to 2008. Since early 2008 assaying for PGM was done by SGS Laboratories. All of our programs have been, and will continue to be conducted under a program of standards assaying and check assay of selected samples are periodically sent to a third party laboratory (Lakefield Laboratories, SGS Laboratories or ALS Chemex Laboratories).
9. Security of Samples
Core samples are sawed on site into two halves, one submitted to the laboratory and one kept in a secure location on site. The half-core, selected according to geologic criteria or regularly spaced intervals, is sent by land or air to the sample preparation laboratory in Belo Horizonte, Brazil operated by SGS Laboratories. The samples are sealed on site under the supervision of the geologist in charge and the laboratory is instructed to report any breaks in the seal to the Project Manager. No such security breaches have been noted since Solitario has taken over operation of the project.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
There are no reported reserves.
11. Mining Operations
There are no current mining operations associated with this project.
12. Planned Exploration
Currently Anglo is evaluating the results of the 2009 exploration program. Anglo is expected to make a decision on whether or not it will fund the proposed $1.5 million 2010 program within the next month. The proposed 2010 budget emphasizes drilling in the first half of 2010, followed by scoping-level economic and resource studies.
<PAGE>
Yanacocha Royalty Property (Peru)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Yanacocha Property)
The Yanacocha royalty property consists of 69 concessions totaling approximately 61,000 hectares in northern Peru 25 kilometers north of the city of Cajamarca. The property position consists of a rectangular-shaped contiguous block of concessions nearly 50 kilometers long in an east-west direction and 25 kilometers wide in a north-south direction. The southern boundary of the royalty property abuts Newmont Mining Corporation's Minera Yanacocha mining operation, a large gold mine currently in operation.
We held the concessions until April 2000, at which time we signed an agreement with Newmont Peru, Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation (both companies referred to as "Newmont"), whereby we sold our Yanacocha Property to Newmont for $6,000,000 and a sliding scale net smelter return royalty ("NSR-Royalty") that varied from two to five percent, depending on the price of gold. Newmont has not reported reserves on our Yanacocha property and we have not received any royalty income from Newmont.
In 2004, the Peruvian government implemented a national net smelter return royalty on gold that ranges from 1 to 3 percent, depending upon the total annual revenue from an operation. The top royalty rate applies to operations that produce in excess of $120 million in annual revenues. Operations producing between $60 million to $120 million in annual revenues are subject to a two percent royalty, while a one percent royalty is imposed on smaller operations of less than $60 million in annual revenues.
In January 2005, we signed an Amended and Restated Royalty Grant with Minera Los Tapados S.A., a subsidiary of Newmont Peru Limited, Minera Yanacocha S.R.L., and Minera Chaupiloma Dos de Cajamarca, S.R.L. (affiliates of Newmont Peru, Ltd., collectively "Newmont Peru") to modify the NSR-Royalty schedule that recognizes the impact that Peru's national NSR-Royalty has on the exploration and development of new mining operations. The modified royalty structure is classified into several categories, depending on the type of process used to recover each metal, gold and copper prices, as well as any government royalty burden imposed by Peru on the project ores. The following summarizes the revised royalty structure:
Heap leach ores: For gold recovered by heap leach processing, the lesser of the sliding scale royalty set out below (the "Base Rate"), or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid in Peru is no more than 5.25% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 5.75% NSR.
Base Rate
:
Gold price/oz.
NSR Royalty
Less than $320
Equal to or greater than $320 and less than $360
Equal to or greater than $360 and less than $400
Equal to or greater than $400
2%
3%
4%
5%
Dore end-product, non-flotation mill ores:
For gold recovered as dore in a non-flotation mill, the lesser of the Base Rate, or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid in Peru is no more than 4.5% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 5% NSR. Concentrate-producing, Cu-Au flotation mill ores: For gold and copper recovered in a concentrate producing, copper-gold flotation mill, the lesser of the Base Rate, or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid in Peru is no more than 3.5% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce and the copper price is greater than a PPI-indexed price of $1.50 per pound, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 4% NSR.
Silver: For silver, the lesser of 3% NSR, or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid Peru is no more than 4.5% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 5% NSR.
As part of the NSR-Royalty modification, Newmont Peru, through its subsidiaries and/or affiliates, agreed to spend an aggregate of $4.0 million on Solitario's royalty property during the next eight years. Details of the work commitment calls for the following expenditure schedule:
<PAGE>
Period
Between 1/1/05 to 12/31/06
Between 1/1/07 to 12/31/08
Between 1/1/09 to 12/31/10
Between 1/1/11 to 12/31/12
Amount
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
Cumulative
$1,000,000
$2,000,000
$3,000,000
$4,000,000
Newmont has met all of its required expenditure requirements through December 31, 2009.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The property is easily accessed within an hour by paved and improved gravel roads from the city of Cajamarca, a regional hub for commerce and government administration. The terrain ranges from gently rolling to mountainous and varies in altitude from 2,800 to over 4,200 meters. A rainy season of approximately four months hampers exploration and access, but year-round work can be done. Vegetation in the area consists of alpine tundra type conditions.
3. History
The majority of concessions were acquired in 1993, with several concessions added in 1994 and 1995. We conducted regional surface exploration on the property in 1994 and 1995, which included a limited core-drilling program on two gold targets. At various times between 1995 and 1999, we joint ventured the property with three major mining companies, Barrick Gold Corporation, Rio Tinto, Ltd., and Placer Dome, Inc. All three companies conducted limited surface exploration programs and each elected to terminate its respective option to earn an interest in the property. Barrick Gold Corporation was the only company to conduct exploration drilling on the property. Newmont Peru purchased the property, subject to our NSR-Royalty, in April 2000.
4. Geological Setting
The property is situated within a northwest trending belt of Tertiary-aged volcanic and associated intrusive rocks that overlie and intrude Cretaceous-aged sedimentary rocks. The Cretaceous sediments are strongly deformed and consist of a lower sequence of sandstones, shales and quartzites and an upper sequence of carbonate rocks. Approximately half the property is underlain by Tertiary volcanic rocks consisting mainly of older andesitic to dacitic flows and tuffs. Locally these older volcanics are covered by a younger rhyo-dacitic tuff unit. Mineralization usually is hosted in the older volcanic unit.
5. Prior Exploration
We have independently, and through the efforts of our various joint venture partners, collected rock, soil and stream sediment samples on the surface. Geologic mapping has revealed 15 medium-to-large areas of hydrothermal alteration contained within both the volcanic and sedimentary rock units. Three gold targets were tested by us and our joint venture partner Barrick Gold prior to Newmont Peru purchasing the project in 2000. We conducted a large-scale helicopter-bourn geophysical program in 1994 that identified a number of magnetic anomalies. Newmont Peru conducted a more detailed and comprehensive helicopter-bourn geophysical program in 2003. During the past eight years Newmont Peru has conducted extensive surface sampling in the central portion of our NSR-Royalty property, from our southern BORDER=0 to the northern border, and has conducted a limited amount of drilling. The results of these Newmont Peru programs are made available to us for review on an annual basis as part of Newmont Peru's work commitment obligations.
6. Mineralization
Gold mineralization has been identified in at least 15 separate areas within altered volcanic and sedimentary rocks. Alteration generally consists of silicification (addition of quartz to the host rock) and argillization (destruction of feldspar minerals to clay). Rock chip sampling within these altered areas often contains anomalous values of gold, silver, mercury, arsenic or antimony. Alteration appears to be partially controlled by fault structures in the underlying rock formations or proximity to intrusive rocks.
7. Drilling
Twenty-one core-holes totaling approximately 2,700 meters were drilled on three gold targets prior to Newmont Peru purchasing the project in 2000. We drilled eight holes on the Los Negritos prospect and Barrick Gold drilled nine holes at the Shuito prospect and four holes at the Chalhuaquero prospect. Anomalous to low-grade gold, silver and base metal mineralization has been intersected in some of the drill holes conducted by us, Barrick Gold and Newmont. However, the tenor of mineralization and the lack of detailed drill hole spacing does not allow for an estimate of reserves.
8. Sampling and Analysis
Newmont is responsible for all sampling and analysis conducted on our royalty property and has been responsible for this activity for the past seven years. We review the results of Newmont's sampling and analysis activities on an annual basis.
<PAGE>
9. Security of Samples
Newmont has been responsible for the security of samples for the past eight years.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
No resources or reserves have been delineated on the property.
11. Mining Operations
No mining is conducted on the property.
12. Planned Exploration
Newmont has not provided us with their planned exploration budget for 2010.
Chambara Zinc Property (Peru)
In September of 2006, we acquired 3,700 hectares of 100%-owned mineral rights through concessions for our Chambara (formerly called Amazonas) property in northern Peru. We formerly held 300 hectares in the project since 1997. We capitalized $17,000 during the year ended December 31, 2007 in lease acquisition costs related to new concessions covering an additional 5,600 hectares at the Chambara project. At December 31, 2007, the Chambara project consisted of six widely spaced areas where previous sampling had identified high-grade zinc mineralization at surface similar to that found at Florida Canyon, discussed above under our Bongara zinc property. The land holdings consisted of 13 concessions totaling 9600 hectares,
On April 4, 2008 we signed the Minera Chambara shareholders' agreement with Votorantim Metais Cajamarquilla, S.A., a wholly owned subsidiary of Votorantim Metais (both companies referred to as "Votorantim") for the exploration of a large area of interest in northern Peru measuring approximately 200 by 85 kilometers. Votorantim, is the project manager, funds and conducts all exploration on the project. Votorantim contributed 52 mineral concessions within the area of interest totaling 52,000 hectares to Minera Chambara for a 15% interest in Minera Chambara. We contributed 9,600 hectares of mineral claims and certain exploration data in our possession for an 85% interest in Minera Chambara. Existing and future acquired properties subject to the terms of the shareholders' agreement will be held by Minera Chambara. As of December 31, 2009, Minera Chambara's only assets are the properties and Minera Chambara has no debt. Votorantim may increase its shareholding interest to 49% by expending $6,250,000 over seven years and may increase its interest to 70% by funding a feasibility study and providing for construction financing for Solitario's interest. If Votorantim provides such construction financing, we would repay that financing, including interest, from 80% of Solitario's portion of the project cash flow.
We have determined that Votorantim controls Minera Chambara pursuant to the terms of the shareholders' agreement and accordingly, we have recorded our investment in Minera Chambara using the equity-method of accounting. During the second quarter of 2008, we transferred our interest in the claims of $30,000 from mineral properties, net to equity method investment. During 2008, we reduced our equity method investment in Minera Chambara to zero, through a non-cash charge to exploration expense. We do not anticipate we will record an increase in the book value of our 85% equity-method investment in the shares of Minera Chambara in the foreseeable future, if at all.
In 2009 Votorantim compiled existing geochemical and geologic information to prioritize areas for future work. One drill hole was completed in late 2008. Also in 2008 and 2009, Votorantim added and dropped various concessions. Minera Chambara now controls 195 concessions totaling approximately 175,000 hectares of mineral rights. Votorantim is planning to conduct additional surface exploration work, as well as drilling, for 2010. The timing of any drilling is dependent upon the receipt of permit approvals.
Newmont Alliance (Peru)
On January 18, 2005, we signed a Strategic Alliance Agreement (the "Alliance Agreement") with Newmont Overseas Exploration Limited ("Newmont"), to explore for gold in South America (the "Strategic Alliance"). Prior to the definitive agreement, we had signed a Letter of Intent on November 17, 2004, with Newmont. Concurrent with the signing of the Alliance Agreement, Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada purchased 2.7 million shares of Solitario (at the time, an approximately 9.9% equity interest) for Cdn$4,590,000. As part of the Alliance Agreement we were committed to spend $3,773,000 over the four years, which was subsequently extended by mutual agreement to five years, from the date of the Alliance Agreement on gold exploration in regions ("Alliance Projects Areas") that were mutually agreed upon by Newmont and us. In late July 2009 we completed the required expenditure commitment and informed Newmont. In December 2009 we granted Newmont a 2% net smelter royalty on five properties ("Strategic Alliance Properties") that fall within Strategic Alliance areas. If we meet certain minimum exploration expenditures on Strategic Alliance Properties, Newmont will have the right to joint venture acquired properties and earn up to a 75% interest by taking the project through feasibility and financing Solitario's retained 25% interest into production. Newmont may elect to earn a lesser interest or no interest at all, in which case it would retain its 2% net smelter return royalty. As of December 31, 2009, Newmont also has a right of first offer on our Santiago and Espanola properties, which are non-alliance Solitario properties in South America, acquired after signing of the Alliance Agreement and before fulfillment of the required expenditure completed in 2009, that we may elect to sell and interest in or joint venture with a third party.
<PAGE>
As of December 31, 2009 we had established five property positions that fell within Strategic Alliance areas and are subject to the provisions of the Newmont Alliance as discussed above. These include the La Promesa, Paria Cruz, Cajatambo, Excelsior and Cerro Azul (formerly Twin Lakes) properties. The Cerro Azul property was staked in 2007, the La Promesa, Paria Cruz, Cajatambo and Excelsior properties were staked in early 2008. All five properties are 100%-owned, subject to the Alliance Agreement, and are situated within the central Peru mineral belt that is proximal to the giant Cerro de Pasco silver-base metal district. During 2010, additional surface work is planned on the Cerro Azul, Paria Cruz and Excelsior properties to potentially define drill targets, while drilling is planned on the Cajatambo and La Promesa properties.
1. La Promesa
The La Promesa property, acquired in 2008, consists of three concessions totaling 2,600 hectares. No payments are due to third parties so the only holding costs for the mineral rights are annual payments of three dollars per hectare to the Peruvian government during the first six years that the claims are held.
The property represents a new Solitario surface discovery. At least five high-grade polymetallic veins have been identified and sampled at surface. Although sampling on the project is limited to date, it is encouraging. Two of the veins, about 300 meters apart, have been traced for at least 400 meters along strike. There appears to be a systematic trend towards greater vein thickness with depth, as the widest observed vein in outcrop occurs at the lowest elevation sampled to date. Channel sampling along 300 meters of strike length from the best exposed vein yielded the following high-grade results:
Chip Channel
True
Silver
Zinc
Lead
Indium
Number
Width
grams/t
%
%
grams/t
A
2.8
19.4
7.2
B
1.1
21.0
2.4
C
0.5
10.5
6.3
D
0.4
10.2
10.8
E
1.0
5.9
3.4
F
1.2
33.1
5.6
During 2009, our efforts were primarily directed towards securing a land agreement with the local community that controls the area in which our concessions are located. In 2010, we will continue to pursue signing an agreement with the local community that will allow us to file for a drilling permit. Upon reaching an agreement with the community, additional surface work to further define drill targets is planned, followed by an initial ten-hole, 1,200 meter drilling program that is scheduled for the second half of 2010, pending receipt of drilling permits.
2. Cajatambo
The Cajatambo property consists of eleven concessions totaling 10,500 hectares that was acquired in 2008 and 2009. No payments are due to third parties so the only holding costs for the mineral rights are annual payments of three dollars per hectare to the Peruvian government during the first six years that the claims are held. Solitario currently has land agreements with the local communities that allows us to conduct exploration activities, including drilling.
The geology of the property consists of Tertiary volcanic and intrusive rocks that have been significantly altered by silicification, quartz-alunite and argillic alteration. The alteration system can be intermittently traced over an area ten kilometers long by two-three kilometers wide. There are high-sulfidation type mineralized occurrences and shallow hypabyssal porphyry related systems that are geologically similar in character to many of the large gold deposits situated throughout the Cordillera of Peru. In 2008 we drilled 7 reverse circulation exploration holes totaling 892 meters. Assay results for all 7 holes were generally low with the best drill hole intercept, hole CJ-002, intersecting 8 meters of 1.32 grams per tonne ("gpt") gold.
In 2009 we conducted further follow-up on several isolated gold anomalies located approximately nine kilometers south of the previously drilled areas. This follow-up work resulted in defining a very large area of significant gold and silver mineralization in rocks and soils, where rock exposure is poor. Nearly a thousand rock and soil samples were collected to define the 3.5 by 1.5 kilometer zone of gold-silver mineralization. Seventeen line kilometers of induced polarization geophysical survey was conducted in late-2009 and indicates gold-silver mineralization occurs along the margin of a strong chargeability anomaly. The chargeability anomaly reflects high concentrations of metal-sulfide minerals in the underlying bedrock. Based upon this work, Solitario has filed for drilling permits with the appropriate Peruvian regulatory agency. Drilling is expected to commence near the end of the second quarter of 2010. The initial plan is for a eight-hole, reverse circulation drilling campaign totaling approximately 1,500 meters.
<PAGE>
3. Cerro Azul
The Cerro Azul property acquired in 2007 (formerly named Twin Lakes) consists of one concession totaling 1,000 hectares. The geology of the property consists of Tertiary volcanics cut by a system of parallel quartz veins. Veins are up to two meters wide and can be traced along strike up to 1.2 kilometers. The veins are polymetallic in character, within a low-sulfidation geologic environment. A limited amount of surface work was conducted in 2009. Based upon this work, additional surface sampling is planned for 2010 to determine if the property warrants drilling in 2011.
4. Excelsior
The Excelsior property, acquired in 2008, consists of two concessions totaling 2,000 hectares. The geology of the property consists of sequence of metamorphosed Ordovician sedimentary formations. Mineralization consists of gold-bearing massive and stockwork quartz-iron replacements associated with an intrusive dike in phyllites. The quartz replacements can be traced intermittently over a length of eight kilometers and a width of up to one kilometer. Mineralization is also associated with regional faulting along the hinge of an anticline. A limited amount of surface work was conducted in 2009. Based upon this work, additional surface sampling is planned for 2010 to determine if the property warrants drilling in 2011.
5. Paria Cruz
The Paria Cruz property consists of three concessions totaling 3,000 hectares staked in the first half of 2008. We capitalized $10,000 in mineral property payments for initial acquisition costs during the second quarter of 2008. No payments are due to third parties so the only holding costs for the mineral rights are annual payments of three dollars per hectare to the Peruvian government during the first six years that the claims are held.
The geology of the property consists of Tertiary-aged volcanics and intrusive rocks. Quartz-tourmaline breccia dikes cut these rocks and appear to partially control gold and base metal mineralization. Due to other, currently higher priority projects, we are not planning any work on Paria Cruz in 2010, but plan to keep the property in good standing.
Wholly-owned Exploration Properties
Pachuca Real Silver-Gold Property (Mexico)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Pachuca-Real Property)
The Pachuca-Real property consists of approximately 31,000 hectares of mineral rights encompassing about 10% of the historic Pachuca-Real del Monte silver-gold mining district of central Mexico, but mainly areas situated to the north and northwest of the historic district, termed the North District, and areas east of the historic district. Solitario owns 100% of the property, except for the 6,240-hectare El Cura claim, that is subject to an Option to Purchase agreement with a private Mexican party completed in October 2005. The option requires payments of $500,000 over four years for a 100% interest in the claim. Solitario has made payments totaling$90,000 through December 31, 2009. In May 2009 we amended the option agreement. Under the revised terms, Solitario is required to pay $15,000 every six months, starting in May of 2009 (paid), to the underlying owner to keep the option in good standing. By May of 2012, Solitario must either exercise the option to acquire 100% interest in the concession by paying the underlying owner $500,000, or the option will terminate. Solitario may terminate its option at anytime without any further costs. Claims fees to be paid to the government of Mexico totaling approximately $76,000 are due in 2010.
On September 25, 2006 we signed a definitive venture agreement regarding the Pachuca project (the "Venture Agreement") with Newmont de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. ("Newmont"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation. The Venture Agreement called for a work commitment by Newmont of $12.0 million over 54 months to earn a 51% interest in the property. Newmont had the right to earn an additional 19% interest (70% total) by completing a feasibility study and by financing Solitario's 30% interest in construction costs. In December 2008 Newmont terminated its right to earn an interest in the Pachuca Real property. Solitario retains a 100% interest in the Pachuca Real property.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The project is located about 80 kilometers north of Mexico City near the city of Pachuca. Access is excellent throughout much of the project area with moderately maintained gravel roads. The city of Pachuca, with excellent modern infrastructure, lies in the southern portion of the property. The project topography ranges in elevation from 2,100 to 3,000 meters. The climate ranges from semi-arid in the lower elevations, which tend to be sparsely vegetated; to temperate in the higher elevations, that tend to be well-forested.
<PAGE>
3. History
Pachuca has a long, nearly unbroken history of silver and gold production beginning somewhere around 1550 by the Spaniards, although it is generally thought that pre-Hispanic smelting of Pachuca ores occurred by the indigenous population inhabiting the area. Total silver production during this five and a half-century period is estimated at approximately 1.4 billion ounces and more than seven million ounces of gold. Nearly 80% of its total production occurred during a 60-year period from 1900 to 1960. Mining in the old district ceased in 2004 due to the depletion of ore reserves. Our claim position, predominantly situated north of the historic district, was held by the Mexican government from 1947 to the early 1990's, whereupon the concessions were sold to a private Mexican company and held by that same company until early 2006, when the land became free to staking. We immediately applied, and were granted, title to the concessions.
4. Geological Setting
The geology of the Pachuca-Real project area is dominated by a thick sequence of Tertiary-aged volcanic and volcanic-related rock formations of dominantly andesitic composition. This thick pile of volcanic rocks is cut by a series of younger east-west trending and northwest-southeast trending quartz porphyry and dacite porphyry dikes. The volcanic rocks are gently dipping on a regional scale, but locally display moderate dips of up to 40 degrees. In the old district, structures typically have a west-northwest to east-southeast trend, except in the Real del Monte area that has a north-south trend. Basement rocks within the project area consist of Cretaceous-aged sedimentary rocks. Overlying the thick andesitic pile of volcanic rocks is another sequence of volcanic and volcanic-related rocks that are thin to moderately thick formations of primarily dacitic composition. These rocks are generally post-mineralization in age.
5. Prior Exploration
The old Pachuca-Real del Monte mining district has been intensely explored and mined throughout its long history, but is not the area of our current exploration focus. We believe the area of greatest potential lies about 10 kilometers north of the main district and an area immediately east of the historic district. Exploration in this area (North District) during the past 60 years was restricted to mainly surface sampling with a very limited amount of drilling. We have compiled all the historical data that we were able to obtain and conducted a limited surface rock and soil sampling program in the first half of 2006, prior to Newmont becoming our joint venture partner. Newmont accelerated the surface sampling program and also conducted detailed geologic mapping to define drill targets. Newmont completed two campaigns of core drilling from mid-2007 to mid-2008, believed to have been the first ever drilling by a modern exploration company in the North District.
6. Mineralization
The old Pachuca-Real del Monte mining district is a classic large-scale vein district nearly 11 kilometers in an east-west direction and 7 kilometers in a north-south direction. Hundreds of near-vertical veins associated with fractures, faults and dikes occur throughout the district. The major veins have productive stopes in excess of a kilometer in length, up to 600 meters in vertical extent and 2-5 meters in average width. The veins are characterized by low sulfide and base metal content and weak wallrock alteration. Historical average grades for the district are 500 g/t silver and 2.5 g/t gold.
In the North District, a major 15-kilometer long east-west fault system, the "Arevalo trend," localizes mineralization along fractures and dikes. The largest historic mines in the North District, the Arevalo mine near the town of El Chico and the Capula mine further west, partially exploited this large potential area of mineralization. Further north, a major series of east-west and northwest-southeast trending veins occupy an area over 12 kilometers long and 7 kilometers wide. South of the Arevalo trend, on its western extent, another series of east-west and northwest-southeast trending veins occurs. In total, Newmont identified, geologically mapped and sampled 38 separate vein target areas as defined by geologically mappable trends of at least 700 meters in strike length. The geology, alteration and style of mineralization in the North District are very similar to that of the historic district to the south.
7. Drilling
In 2009 we obtained a limited amount of underground drilling records thought to date to the 1930's for a limited area in the North District west of the Arevalo mine and also east of the historic district. Although this information indicates very interesting grades of mineralization, we cannot verify its accuracy at this time. This is the only historical drill data we know of prior to Newmont's involvement. Newmont tested 11 different target areas in 2007 and 2008 by completing 19 core holes totaling 7,873 meters. Ten of the holes intersected significant mineralization in six different prospects. Better intercepts included:
<PAGE>
Prospect Name
Drill Hole
From/To
Interval (m)*
Au g/t
Ag g/t
San Juan Gallo
PAC-08
210.4 - 212.95
2.55
0.17
37.0
266.4 - 267.3
0.90
2.03
754.0
El Escribano
PAC-09
129.3 - 129.9
0.6
0.19
144.0
245.0 -245.5
0.5
0.75
468.0
300.4 - 301.4
1.0
0.09
63.8
323.3 - 323.8
0.5
0.26
163.0
Tierras Colorados
PAC-10
380.3 - 381.7
1.4
0.03
119.3
Investigadora
PAC-11
314.4 - 315.25
0.85
1.28
173.0
San Juan Gallo
PAC-13
142.85 - 145.0
2.15
0.29
87.1
156.9 - 158.85
1.95
0.63
144.67
158.4 - 158.85
0.45
1.98
335.0
235.0 - 236.0
1.0
0.44
141.8
San Juan Gallo
PAC-17
234.75 - 237.5
2.75
0.16
86.4
El Escribano
PAC-18
73.1 - 73.4
0.3
1.37
274.65 - 276.05
1.4
1.00
458.4
* True thickness has not been determined and could be substantially less than the drill thickness for some intervals.
8. Sampling and Analysis
A total of 2,865 geochemical samples from outcrops, dumps, old mine workings, and channel sampling have been collected on the project by Newmont. Prior to Newmont's work, we had collected rock chip samples and soil samples over select parts of the property.
9. Security of Samples
From September 2006 to December 2008, Newmont controlled all field activities on the project and was responsible for the security of samples. Newmont has indicated to us that there have been no breaches in the security of the samples. We retained control of all samples since December 2008 and believe that adequate procedures are in place to ensure the future security and integrity of samples.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
There are no reported reserves or resources.
11. Mining Operations
There are no current mining operations associated with this project.
12. Planned Exploration
We are currently negotiating with two third party mining companies to joint venture the property. If negotiations are successful and an agreement is reached, our new joint venture partner would be responsible for developing an exploration plan and managing operations on the property. If we are unable to reach an agreement, we are considering a limited drilling program in the second half of 2010.
La Noria Copper Property (Mexico)
http://www.solitarioresources.com/lanoria.html
1. Property Description and Location
The La Noria Copper property was staked in the second quarter of 2008 and is located in the state of Sonora in northern Mexico approximately 140 km south of the state capital of Hermosillo. It consists of one exploration concession totaling approximately 10,000 hectares. It is 100% owned by Solitario with no underlying property owners. We completed a surface access agreement with the surface owner in early 2009 that allowed for access to the property and the approval to conduct exploration.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The property is easily accessed by unpaved roads year-round. The climate is hot and dry from May through September and warm and dry during the remaining months of the year. Monsoon rains can occur during July and August. The nearest town with services is Ciudad Obregon which is situated 70 kilometers south of the project area. The local area is used mainly for low density cattle grazing. The terrain is flat to gently rolling hills that is covered with sparse desert vegetation. Work at the property is based out of a nearby ranch house.
3. History
There is no evidence of any historic mining or exploration on the property prior to Solitario's work.
4. Geological Setting
The geology of the property is relatively simple with fine- to medium-grained granitic rocks that are overlain by volcanic rocks ranging in composition from older andesites to younger felsic rocks,
<PAGE>
5. Prior Exploration
No known formal exploration has been conducted on the property prior to our 2009 program. Solitario acquired the property based upon strong alteration of rocks observed in satellite images.
6. Mineralization
A mineralized bedrock zone has been delineated over an area that is at least 700 meters long and 100 to 200 meters wide at surface. This zone is characterized by altered granite. Copper mineralization occurs in the oxide form and is most commonly associated with hematite, and to a lesser extent with jarosite. The copper bearing hematite occurs as disseminated blebs within the granite matrix. The grade of this zone, based upon 100 rock chip channel samples, averages 0.32 copper. It appears that the granite originally contained disseminated chalcopyrite, a copper bearing sulfide mineral that was subsequently oxidized to a copper bearing hematitic mineral. The mineralized zone is covered by a thin veneer of outwash gravels on three sides. The depth of oxidation is currently unknown.
An Induced Polarization/resistivity geophysical survey consisting of seven lines totaling 8.9 kilometers was completed in late 2009. The interpretive results of this survey suggest that mineralization could be approximately one-kilometer square in size and at least 200 meters deep.
7. Drilling
No drilling has ever been conducted on the property.
8. Sampling and Analysis
Copper mineralization was detected by a relatively detailed rock chip channel sampling and soil sampling program conducted by us over an area approximately 900 meters long and 500 meters wide. One-hundred rock chip channel samples, that were more or less evenly distributed, were collected. The copper grade of these samples over the mineralized zone averaged 0.32% copper.
9. Security of Samples
The geologist in charge supervised the collection of samples on site and the shipping from the site to laboratory pickup location in Hermosillo. Samples collected from this project were processed and analyzed by Chemex.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
No mineral reserves or resources are reported on the property.
11. Mining Operations
There are no mining operations on the property.
12. Planned Exploration
We expect to complete an approximately six-hole, 1,500 meter reverse circulation drilling program before the end of the first quarter of 2010. In addition, we are planning to conduct acid leach metallurgical testing to see if the copper mineralization is amenable to SX/EW processing techniques, if drill results indicate significant oxide copper concentrations down-hole. If results warrant, a second round of drilling is anticipated for 2010.
Mercurio Gold Property (Brazil)
http://www.solitarioresources.com/tapajos.html
1. Property Description and Location
The Mercurio Gold Property is located in Para State in Northern Brazil approximately 250 km south of the town of Itaituba. It consists of three exploration concessions totaling 8,476 hectares. An agreement dated March 14, 2005 with the underlying claim and surface rights holder provides for transfer of a 100% interest of the mineral estate to Solitario and payment by Solitario of approximately $350,000 over a period of 60 months. The owner retains a 1.5% net smelter return that is subject to purchase by Solitario for approximately $1,220,000. All payments are made in local currency and the amounts in U.S. currency will fluctuate with exchange rates. On completion of all payments we will receive title to 1,500 hectares of surface rights. In 2009 we negotiated a suspension in payments to the claims owner of one year. During 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, $19,000, $82,000, $55,000 and $25,000, respectively, were paid under the terms of the contract.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The property can be accessed by a local unpaved road that services the region. This road is open for approximately eight months of the year but is subject to intermittent closing due to weather conditions during the four month rainy season. Additionally, an unpaved landing strip for light aircraft is located on the property. The climate is hot and humid year round. Work at the property is difficult during the rainy season from December though March and generally field activities are suspended during this time. Solitario maintains a camp constructed of wooden buildings on the site that can accommodate up to 30 people. At the same location is a small community of artisanal miners and a store for basic goods. The nearest town with services is Almedia, approximately 100 kilometers by road from the project. The terrain is flat to gently rolling and is covered with tropical vegetation.
3. History
Small scale artisanal mining for gold by gravity methods has been conducted on the property for ten years. No systematic exploration prior to Solitario's arrival had ever been conducted.
<PAGE>
4. Geological Setting
The region is underlain by granite rocks and granitic gneisses. Most of these rocks are medium- to coarse-grained but later dikes occur that are fine- to very fine-grained. Basaltic dikes locally cut the basement. Weathering is intense and has converted the rocks to saprolite (leached oxidized soil) to depths of up to 50 meters.
5. Prior Exploration
No known exploration has been conducted on the property prior to the Solitario 2005 program except for local artisanal exploration and mining. During 2005 and 2006, we conducted extensive geochemical sampling that included both detailed and widely spaced grid sampling of soils, and to a lesser extent mechanized auger sampling of soils up to 10 meters in depth. All soil and auger samples were analyzed for gold. In 2005 we conducted a widespread ground magnetic survey to further define potential drill targets. In 2006 we conducted induced polarization (IP) geophysical survey to further aid us in selecting drill-hole locations.
6. Mineralization
Gold mineralization has been detected by detailed soil sampling over an area that is at least five kilometers long in an east-west direction and 4 kilometers wide in a north-south direction. In bedrock, gold mineralization occurs along steeply dipping shears in the granite and along dike boundaries of later, finer grained phases of granite. Gold enrichment occurs in E-W trending zones. Pyrite is the only common sulfide mineral but it occurs only in small amounts, generally from 1/2% to 3%. Rarely, galena, chalcopyrite and sphalerite have been observed in trace amounts. Quartz as veinlets and as veins up to 30 cm are most commonly associated with gold mineralization, though silicification as a replacement texture is important locally. Silver values and the quantities of other valuable metals are uniformly low.
7. Drilling
Solitario drilled 12 core holes totaling 2,435 meters in 2005 and 11 core holes totaling 1,596 meters in 2006 and 13 core hole totaling 1,481 meters in 2008. Drilling results for 2008 are provided below.
2008 Mercurio Drill Hole Assay Results
Prospect Name
Hole
Number
From
Meters
To
Meters
Interval
Meters
Gold Grade
g/t
Colonia
SB-25
1.8
And
48.1
58.5
10.4
8.0
including
52.0
57.6
5.6
12.8
Colonia
SB-26
99.6
103.7
4.1
4.2
Patoa
SB-29
77.0
83.0
6.0
1.6
Patoa
SB-31
43.6
48.0
4.4
1.7
And
111.0
112.0
1.0
4.0
Tucanare
SB-33
124.0
125.0
1.0
2.1
Colonia
SB-35
49.0
51.0
2.0
10.1
65.0
68.9
3.0
1.2
72.0
74.0
2.0
1.2
No estimate of true width of mineralized intercepts shown above can yet be made.
A total of 36 drill holes totaling 4,621 meters have thus far tested three principal target areas: the Colonia, Patoa and Tucanare prospects. At the main Colonia trend, a mineralized east-west structure has been traced by drilling for about 500 meters. This trend remains open in both directions along horizontal strike and at depth. Of the two holes drilled this year at the new Jamil prospect in the southern part of the Colonia area, one contained 10.4 meters of 8 g/t gold. The one hole drilled in another completely new area, Dorado, in the northern part of the Colonia area intersected 10.1 g/t over 2 meters.
At Patoa, previously announced drill holes SB-04, that intersected 12.2 meters grading 12.2 g/t gold, and SB-18, that intersected 34 meters grading 2.7 g/t gold, may represent the same mineralized trend. In addition, SB-20, that contained 25.5 meters of 1.6 g/t gold, was drilled 600 meters west of the main Patoa area and represents significant untested potential of the Patoa zone. Finally, at the Tucanare prospect, all five drill holes have intersected gold mineralization.
8. Sampling and Analysis
Soils were taken over large areas and analyzed by assay and by panning to aid in exploration. Auger samples up to 10 meters in depth were also taken in selected areas and analyzed similarly. Sawed core samples were transported from the drill to the camp by vehicle then by truck, boat or plane to the nearest population center where they were air transported to central Brazil for sample preparation at ALS Chemex Laboratories in Goianania or SGS Laboratories in Minas Gerais, Brazil. Final analysis for samples sent to ALS Chemex was completed in the ALS Chemex laboratory in Vancouver, Canada or in Lima, Peru.
<PAGE>
9. Security of Samples
The geologist in charge supervised the collection of samples on site and the shipping from the site to the point of air transport. Sample tracking by Solitario incorporated transport records and sample receipt by the laboratory in Brazil. Shipping outside of Brazil was supervised by the laboratory.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
No mineral reserves or resources are reported on the property.
11. Mining Operations
With exception of small scale artisanal mining for gold by gravity methods that has been conducted on the property for ten years, there are no mining operations on the property.
12. Planned Exploration
We are currently seeking a joint venture partner to advance this project. However, there can be no assurance that a joint venture partner can be secured.
Palmira Massive Sulfide (Copper) Property (Mexico)
We optioned the Palmira property in the state of Zacatecas in November 2009 from a private Mexican individual. The Palmira property is 2,600 hectares in size and situated 20 kilometers south of the historic state capital city of Zacatecas. We can acquire a 100% interest in the property by making scheduled payments over a five year term totaling $1.0 million to the underlying owner. The initial option payment of $5,000 has been made. The next payment of $10,000 is due on May 20, 2010.
To date, Solitario has conducted reconnaissance stage geologic mapping and geochemical sampling. The geology of the property consists of a mixed greenstone package of Mesozoic aged andesitic volcanic rocks and fine-grained sedimentary rocks with minor occurrence of older granitic intrusives and a younger rhyolite dome complex. Within the greenstone package, a stratigraphically controlled exhalative horizon predominantly consisting of jasperoid has been noted in numerous locations, some of which have been traced for over a kilometer and measured in widths of tens of meters. Surface rocks are leached of copper sulfides but copper oxides are noted in prospect pits at shallow depths.
We are planning to conduct more detailed mapping and geochemical sampling, followed by geophysical surveys over prioritized areas. Based upon this work we anticipate an initial drilling program could commence early in the third quarter of 2010.
Santiago Gold Property (Peru)
The Santiago prospect was acquired in 2007 and consists of one mining concession totaling 1,000 hectares. The prospect geology consists of nearly flat lying tertiary volcanics that have been silicified and pyritized. Alteration can be traced discontinuously for 9 km x 2.5 km. Post alteration lava flows cover up the underlying altered rocks leaving only "windows" through the fresh rock into mineralization that can be sampled. Much of the alteration is high sulfidation epithermal gold in character but has been overprinted by low sulfidation type mineral assemblages. Work to date consists mainly of stream sediment sampling, rock chip channel sampling and reconnaissance geologic mapping. Some detailed geologic mapping has been initiated in areas of higher potential. Due to other, currently higher priority projects, we are not planning any work on the Santiago project in 2010, but plan to keep the property in good standing.
La Tola Royalty Property (Peru)
In October 2003, we acquired the La Tola project in southern Peru to explore for gold and possibly silver. The project is located in southern Peru. In April 2004, we signed a Letter Agreement with Newmont Peru, whereby Newmont Peru could earn a 51%-interest in the La Tola property by completing $7.0 million of exploration over four years and an additional 14% interest by completing a feasibility study and by arranging 100% project financing. On June 22, 2005, Newmont Peru informed Solitario that it had elected to terminate its option to earn an interest in the La Tola project and Solitario recorded an $18,000 impairment related to the La Tola project. We retained one claim covering 1,000 hectares.
In August 2007 we signed a Letter of Intent with Canadian Shield Resources ("CSR") allowing CSR to earn a 100%-interest in the property, subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty ("NSR") to our benefit. To earn its interest, CSR is required to spend $2.0 million in exploration by December 31, 2011. CSM has the right to purchase the 2% NSR for $1.5 million anytime before commercial production is reached. Because the Letter of Intent with CSR provides that our ending interest in La Tola will be a 2% net smelter royalty, rather than a working interest, we currently classify the La Tola gold property as a royalty property interest.
<PAGE>
Triunfo Gold-Silver-Lead-Zinc Property (Bolivia)
We signed an Option to Purchase a 100% interest in the mineral rights on the 256-hectare gold, silver, lead and zinc Triunfo property in Bolivia in July 2003. Amendments modifying the option were signed in March of 2004, September of 2005, June of 2006 and June of 2008. The option, as amended, calls for Solitario to spend up to $2.3 million on exploration activities over a five-year period and make payments to the underlying owners of up to $170,000 over the first four years, with an option for us to acquire a 100% interest in the property by making a one-time payment of $1.0 million by the fifth anniversary of the signing of the option. The June 2008 amendment to the contract suspends all future payments agreed to under the contract. For the right to suspend payments we are required to pay $5,000 per year until such time as we decide to continue exploration drilling. The first payment of the "stand-by" period was made on signing of the amendment and such suspension shall continue for so long as we pay $5,000 on the anniversary of the signing of the amendment. We may elect to terminate the option at anytime without any additional payment or work commitment obligations due to the underlying owner.
The project is located about 50 kilometers east of the Bolivian capital of La Paz at an elevation of approximately 4,500 meters. Access is gained by a well-maintained gravel road from La Paz. We have completed construction of a 2.5-kilometer road to the property. The project hosts a large mineralized area extending for at least 800 meters in length and up to 200 meters in width. Mineralization occurs as a stockwork zone of veining within a sequence of Paleozoic shales, siltstones and quartzites. Within the mineralized zone, surface sampling has returned elevated values of gold, silver, lead and zinc.
In mid-2007 we completed three core holes totaling 679 meters. All three holes intersected significant widths of low-grade polymetallic mineralization. Drill hole T-1 intersected 94.2 meters grading 0.65% lead, 0.39% zinc, 21.8 gpt silver and 0.39 gpt gold. We currently have the project on care and maintenance status until the political situation in Bolivia becomes sufficiently positive to justify a more significant exploration program.
Espanola (Bolivia)
We optioned the Espanola gold-copper property in western Bolivia in July 2008. The initial option payment was $5,000, with annual payments of $10,000 until drilling commences, at which time another $10,000 payment will be due followed by a $55,000 payment will be due on the anniversary date of when drilling commenced. We have the right to earn a 90% interest in the property from a private Bolivian party. For 2010, we are evaluating the possibility of drilling several holes. Our decision on whether or not to drill is mainly dependent upon geopolitical considerations, prioritization with other projects and personnel, and the availability of a drill rig.
The geology of the Espanola property consists of Tertiary volcanic and sub-volcanic rocks that have been intensely altered over widespread areas. Geologic mapping and geochemical sampling were undertaken by a major mining company in 1993. A limited drilling program yielded several holes that intersected widespread anomalous gold and copper values.
Discontinued Projects
During the fourth quarter of 2009 we abandoned the Chonta property and recorded a mineral property write-down of $42,000. The Chonta property was optioned in 2008 from a private Peruvian party. Surface work was conducted throughout the remainder of 2008 and drilling was conducted in mid-2009. Drilling results were not considered to be of economic interest and the decision was made to terminate our option to earn an interest in the property.
During the first quarter of 2009 we terminated any additional work on the Purica copper property and recorded a loss of $9,000 on our initial acquisition costs. The property was originally acquired in 2008 through an option agreement with an underlying private Mexican party and through our own staking. We conducted geologic mapping, geochemical sampling and a geophysical survey. Based upon the results of this work, a six-hole reverse circulation drilling program totaling 1,255 meters was completed in the third quarter of 2008. Low grade copper was intersected in three of six holes with the other three holes essentially barren. After reviewing the drilling results, in conjunction with the previously generated surface exploration work, we elected to abandon the property.
Item 3.