Item 2. Properties
Joint Ventures and Strategic Alliance Properties
Mt. Hamilton Gold Project (Nevada, USA)
1. Property Description and Location
The consolidated Mt. Hamilton project property consists of 290 unpatented mining claims, 9 patented mining claims and 241 acres of fee land. Two hundred seventy eight of these claims and 121 acres of the private surface rights are subject to underlying leases. The unpatented claims are also subject to the US Mining Law of 1872 and US Department of Agriculture - Forest Service administration. The property is located in White Pine County, eastern Nevada.
On August 26, 2010, we signed the LOI with Ely to earn up to an 80% interest in DHI-US’s Mt. Hamilton property. In December 2010, we entered into the MH Agreement with DHI-US with respect to MH-LLC, which now holds the Mt.
(table of contents)
Hamilton project assets. Per the terms of the MH Agreement, DHI-US contributed all of its interests in the Mt. Hamilton project to MH-LLC for a 90% initial interest in MH-LLC and Solitario had a 10% initial interest in MH-LLC by virtue of its initial $300,000 advance royalty payment in November 2010 to one of the underlying property owners. On signing the LOI, Solitario subscribed for a private placement of 3,333,333 units of Ely at a price of CDN$0.15 per Unit for an aggregate consideration of approximately CDN$500,000. Each unit consists of one common share and one-half share purchase warrant entitling the holder of a whole warrant to purchase an additional share of Ely for CDN$0.25, such warrants have subsequently expired. The private placement consisted of two tranches. The first tranche of CDN$250,000 was funded on August 31, 2010, and the second tranche of CDN$250,000 was funded on October 19, 2010. Solitario also committed to spend $1.0 million on exploration and feasibility work during the first year and met this spending requirement as of February 28, 2011. Solitario may elect to terminate its interest in the Mt. Hamilton project at any time and have no further earn-in obligations on the project.
Solitario earned an 80% interest in the project, through its ownership in MH-LLC, upon completion of the Feasibility Study in February 2012. During 2012 Solitario, Ely and DHI-US revised the MH Agreement to require the royalty reduction payments to be made as described in the table below. Previously, the MH Agreement obligated Solitario to make the continuing payment obligations to CMC of $3,500,000 on or before November 13, 2013 and $1,500,000 on or before November 13, 2014. In addition, Solitario Ely and DHI-US revised the LOI to clarify the timing and pricing of the payments due to Ely under the private placement as further described in Note 10 “Ely Gold investment and the Mt. Hamilton joint venture” in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. To maintain our interest in MH-LLC, Solitario is further required to make all of the payments listed below, pursuant to the MH Agreement and the LOI.
(1) Payments are to enable Ely to make payment to Augusta for long-term debt; see Note 4, to the consolidated financial
statements, in Item 8, below.
(2) Annual minimum advance royalty payments are due through production.
Upon completion of a bankable feasibility study, all construction and permitting costs will be shared pro-rata. However, DHI-US notified Solitario that it had exercised its option of having Solitario contribute DHI-US’ share of costs through commercial completion as a loan, with such loan, plus interest at 8%, being repaid to Solitario from 80% of DHI-US’s share of distributions from MH-LLC. During 2012, Solitario loaned DHI-US $127,000 for its share of costs subsequent to the completion of the Feasibility Study. However, subsequently, DHI-US repaid Solitario $131,000 for the remaining balance due on the loan from Solitario, including interest, and has no balance due to Solitario as of December 31, 2012.
All currently stated reserves lie within the Centennial Minerals Company LLC (“Centennial”) underlying mining lease that originally had an 8.0% Net Smelter Return (“NSR”) Royalty. In April 2010, Ely amended the lease to allow for a reduction in the NSR Royalty from 8.0% to 3.0% by staging cash payments totaling $5.0 million (see above chart of payments we are required to make) to Centennial. In May 2011, MH-LLC purchased an additional 2.0% of the NSR royalty for $1.52 million in cash and 344,116 shares of Solitario. In June 2012, MH-LLC sold a 2.4% NSR royalty to Sandstorm on gold and silver production for $10 million in cash, in which $6.0 million was received on signing and the remaining $4.0 million was received in mid-January 2013. Assuming the 5.0% NSR Royalty is purchased, the effective NSR Royalty rate on the currently defined reserves will be 3.40%, less advanced royalties already paid.
We are the manager of MH-LLC under the terms of the MH Agreement, which provides that with a few limited exceptions that require unanimous consent, we will control all decisions under the MH Agreement, as a result of our ownership of a majority of the voting membership interests in MH-LLC.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
Access to the Mt. Hamilton project is relatively good from either of the two closest towns, Ely or Eureka, Nevada. From Ely, the property is accessed by traveling 45 miles west on paved Highway 50 and then traveling 10 miles south via a County
(table of contents)
maintained gravel road. From Eureka, the property is accessed by traveling 50 miles east on Highway 50 and then traveling 10 miles south via a County maintained gravel road.
The climate is typical for high-desert, semiarid regions of Nevada with summer high temperatures averaging around 85° F and the winter lows averaging 10° F. Average precipitation is approximately 10 inches per year, and occurs mainly in the winter and spring seasons. Ely, the County Seat of White Pine County, has a population estimated at about 4,000 and offers the most services to the project area, with sufficient housing, schools, hospital and commercial business capable of servicing the needs of a mine at Mt. Hamilton. Quadra FNX Mining operates the Robinson open pit copper mine with over 500 employees eleven miles east of Ely. Additionally, Eureka, Nevada with a population of about 2,000, offers services and is also host to other mining operations.
With the exception of relatively good road access to the Mt. Hamilton property, and existing water wells with sufficient water to supply anticipated processing needs, there is no other infrastructure at the project site. The nearest power line to the property is approximately 17 miles away.
The property lies within the Basin and Range physiographic province of Nevada on the western flanks of the White Pine Mountains and the eastern margin of the topographically flat and broad Newark Valley. The Centennial ore body and Seligman gold deposit, which constitute the main area of interest, are situated at elevations of about 8,600 feet. The location of the proposed heap leach pads is located about one mile southwest of the Centennial gold deposit at an elevation of approximately 7,400 feet in a relatively flat area.
3. History
The general area reportedly produced 20 to 40 million ounces of silver and a limited amount of gold from 1868 to 1880. Phillips Petroleum acquired the property in 1968 and explored for tungsten, molybdenum and copper. In 1984 Westmont Gold Inc. entered into a joint venture with Phillips and Queenstake Resources Ltd. and commenced a large-scale exploration program focused on gold. In 1993 the property was fully transferred to Westmont. In June 1994 Rea Gold Corp. (“Rea”) acquired the property and began production of the NE Seligman deposits in November 1994. Rea mined five small Seligman area deposits to June 1997, when Rea suspended mining. Rea filed for bankruptcy in November 1997.
In 2002 the US Bankruptcy Trustee abandoned all of the unpatented claims allowing them to lapse for failure to pay the annual maintenance fees. Centennial Minerals Company LLC (“Centennial”) staked the claims covering the Centennial and Seligman deposits in late 2002, and in 2003 purchased all of the patented and fee lands. Augusta acquired a 100% leasehold interest in the property, subject to an underlying royalty, from Centennial in late-2003. In November 2007, Augusta sold to Ely 100% of the shares of DHI Minerals, Ltd., of which DHI-US, its wholly-owned subsidiary held the Mt. Hamilton property. From 2008 through August 2010, Ely engaged SRK Consulting (US), Inc. (“SRK”), an independent full-service mining engineering consulting company, to complete a NI 43-101 compliant Preliminary Economic Assessment Study of the Centennial gold and silver deposit. The study was completed in May 2009, and updated in July 2010. In August 2010, Solitario signed the LOI to joint venture the Mt. Hamilton property with Ely, through DHI-US. In December 2010 Solitario and Ely formed MH-LLC, a limited liability company which now holds 100% of the Mt. Hamilton project assets, and signed the MH Agreement. In February 2012, the Mt. Hamilton Feasibility Study was completed.
4. Geologic Setting
The Mt. Hamilton property is located near the southern end of the Battle Mountain Gold Trend, a northwest-oriented trend that contains several major gold mines as well as dozens of smaller mines and prospects. The property’s underlying geology is dominated by Cambrian-age sedimentary rocks that include the Eldorado Dolomite, Secret Canyon Shale and Dunderberg Shale. The sedimentary sequence has been intruded by two igneous stocks of Cretaceous-age: the Seligman granodiorite stock and the Monte Cristo granite stock, both of which are slightly over 100 million years in age. These two stocks variably altered the surrounding sedimentary rocks by metamorphic processes to skarn (calc-silicate mineral assemblage) and hornfels.
5. Prior Work
Prior to 1968, very little is known about exploration activities on the property. Phillips Petroleum acquired the property in 1968 and drilled over 100,000 feet by the early 1980’s. The focus of Phillips’ work was to evaluate tungsten-molybdenum-copper mineralization in a skarn geologic setting. Westmont Gold Inc. from 1984 to 1994 commenced a large-scale exploration program focused on gold. By early 1989, this work defined the NE
(table of contents)
Seligman deposits and the Centennial deposit. Westmont conducted feasibility and permitting studies from 1990 through 1994. Rea Gold Corp. focused on placing the NE Seligman deposits into production and mining activities from 1994-1997. Augusta Resources conducted a limited confirmation drilling program and pre-feasibility related studies on the property from 2003-2007. Ely conducted a limited amount of confirmatory infill drilling in 2008. The Centennial gold and silver ore body has been defined by 306 reverse circulation (“RC”) drill holes totaling approximately 138,440 feet and 28 core holes totaling 13,411feet. RC recovery averages in excess of 90% and core recovery is generally near 100%, with few exceptions. The Seligman gold and silver ore body has been defined by 484 RC drill holes for 142,896 feet and 61 core holes totaling 32775 feet. Core and RC recoveries are generally in excess of 90%.
6. Mineralization
There are two primary styles of mineralization at Mt. Hamilton: early skarn-hosted tungsten +/- molybdenum +/- copper (“WO3-Mo-Cu”) style, and a later-stage epithermal gold style of mineralization. The likely source for both the WO3-Mo-Cu skarn mineralization and precious metal bearing late-stage hydrothermal fluids was the Seligman granodiorite stock that is Cretaceous in age (105 million years). Early metasomatic alteration converted shales to hornfels and silty carbonates to calc-silicate skarn. Mineralization is primarily hosted in a 200-300 foot thick skarn horizon and the margins of the Seligman granodiorite stock.
Mineralization at Mt. Hamilton is controlled by stratigraphy, structure and magmatic hydrothermal alteration. Gold and silver in the Centennial ore body are concentrated along two shallowly dipping sub-parallel faults and associated multiple fracture zones that penetrate the skarn horizon and provided pathways for hydrothermal fluids from the Seligman stock situated to the north. The faulting also appears to have controlled oxidation of the gold zone. The Centennial gold ore body is a north-south oriented body that is about 2,200 feet long, approximately 1,200 feet wide and ranges from 20 feet to over 350 feet in thickness. Gold and silver mineralization in the Seligman deposit is controlled by both vertical and sub-horizontal structures, resulting in a more complex geometry than at Centennial.
7. Drilling
The Centennial gold and silver ore body is defined by 306 reverse circulation (“RC”) drill holes totaling approximately 138,440 feet and 28 core holes totaling 13,411feet. RC recovery averages in excess of 90% and core recovery is generally near 100%, with few exceptions.
Drill data included in resource and reserve modeling by SRK utilized historical data generated by Phillips Petroleum, Westmont Gold Inc. and Rea Gold. SRK concluded, with confirmatory drilling by both Ely and Solitario, that the data from all three previous operators of the project to be valid and sufficiently well documented to provide a reasonable representation of the Centennial gold deposit and sufficiently verifiable for use in a mineral resource estimate and classification of resources in accordance with the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum Standards on Mineral Resources and Reserves: Definitions and Guidelines, dated November 27, 2010 and valid for reserve estimation in accordance with SEC-Guide 7 guidance. Solitario completed three rounds of infill and extension drilling from 2010- 2012, as well as geotechnical, metallurgical and hydrologic drilling for feasibility-related issues. The 2012 drilling campaign was primarily directed at gathering information necessary to incorporate the Seligman deposit into our mine plan and to estimate reserves.
8. Sampling, Analysis and Sample Security
SRK reviewed in detail procedures utilized by all prior managers of the project for drill hole sampling methods, including RC and core splitting, and sample preparation and analyses, including check assay procedures and qualifications of the laboratories used for assay analyses. Methodology used by previous project managers included check assays by a second laboratory, insertion of standard and duplicate samples to the assay lab, and photography of core samples. SRK also undertook an independent evaluation to verify data. This program consisted of field verifications, independent assay analysis, comparison of electronic drill-hole data to paper data, and checking the electronic assay database against original assay certificates.
SRK opined that the sampling and analyses methodology utilized for both RC and core drilling were appropriate for the style of mineralization at the Centennial gold deposit and of sufficient quality to incorporate into a NI 43-101 compliant resource estimate. Furthermore, SRK believes the Centennial gold deposit drill hole assay database has been verified with substantial QA/QC checks, by both the original project managers and SRK’s independent work, including the location of drill cuttings, core, analytical laboratory assay certificates, and that all aspects of the database are satisfactory for use in resource and reserve estimation.
Because much of the work at Mt. Hamilton was conducted prior to chain-of-custody/sample security methodology becoming an integral part of standard industry practice quality control procedures, it is difficult to assess pre-1998 sample
(table of contents)
security. However, Solitario believes that no serious sample security breaches occurred or are known to have occurred based upon other sample quality control procedures that all past project managers employed, such as splitting of core and splitting of RC course rejects and pulp samples to allow for subsequent new independent assay verification.
9. Feasibility Study
MH-LLC engaged SRK to complete the Feasibility Study on the Centennial gold and silver deposit located on the Mt. Hamilton property. Work began in November 2010 and the Feasibility Study was completed in February 2012. The Feasibility Study projects positive economic returns under a recommended development plan of the Centennial gold-silver deposit by conventional open pit mining followed by crushing and then heap leach processing for both gold and silver. The economic analysis in the Feasibility Study assumes a declining price curve for gold and silver. Realized gold/silver prices are assumed to be $1,600/$35.45 per ounce for the first year of production, $1,420/$28.25 for the second year, and $1,280/$23.90 per ounce for all subsequent years. These prices are based on the 12-month, 24-month and 36-month trailing average of gold and silver prices, respectively. This declining gold price scenario results in an average life-of-mine price of $1,323 per ounce for gold and $25.34 per ounce for silver.
The Feasibility Study assumes the following mining methods. Mining within the open pit will be conducted on 20-foot high benches with a 50° high wall. Mining will utilize five 100-ton haul trucks and a 14 cubic yard shovel and loader for loading. The waste to ore ratio is 2.4 tons waste to 1.0 ton ore. Non-mineralized rock will be hauled to a permanent storage area approximately 1,000 to 3,000 feet north of the open pit. Ore will be hauled approximately 2,000 feet to the southwest to the primary crusher. After crushing to minus-4 inch, the ore is dropped down a 350-foot vertical shaft onto a 3,400-foot long underground conveyor. Just outside the conveyor tunnel the ore is then fed into a secondary crusher that crushes the rock to 80% passing minus-¾ inch. From the secondary crusher the ore is conveyed 500 to 1,000 feet to the heap leach pad where it is stacked and then subjected to a weak-cyanide solution that dissolves the gold and silver. The solution from the heap leach is piped to a standard ADR-processing plant where the precious metals are recovered by a conventional carbon tank circuit. A gold-silver doré will be produced on the property and shipped to a refiner periodically. The Feasibility Study also developed a comprehensive reclamation plan designed to conform with current environmental regulations, both on the operational side and mine closure issues.
Reserves were estimated using a $1,200 per ounce gold price and a $20 per ounce silver price. A cutoff grade of 0.006 opt gold was utilized based on a breakeven economic analysis. Key economic results of the Feasibility Study include:
Feasibility Study Highlights:
Production Rate: 8,500 tons ore per day
Mine Life: 8.0 years
Average Gold Recovery: 79% (70% of recoverable gold recovered in the first 30 days )
Average Silver Recovery: 90% of soluble silver (~ 36% of total contained silver)
Life of Mine Strip Ratio: 2.4:1.0 (waste:ore)
Initial Capital Cost: $71.9 M (including $6.3 M contingency)
Sustaining Capital: $35.3 M (including $4.3 M contingency and $10.3 M end-of-mine closure costs)
Working Capital: $7.1 M
Operating Cash Costs per Gold-Equivalent Ounce Recovered: $535* (Mining: $5.75/t ore; Processing: $3.89/t; G&A: $0.69/t);
Total Cash Costs per Gold-Equivalent Ounce Recovered: $589* (includes operating cash costs, royalty, refining and transportation and Nevada Net Proceeds and property taxes)
Average Annual Gold Production: 48,000 ounces
Average Annual Silver Production: 330,000 ounces
Average Annual Gold-Equivalent Production: 54,000 ounces (at a 52:1 silver to gold ratio)
*With the subsequent sale of the 2.4% NSR royalty to Sandstorm Gold, Solitario has estimated the Operating Cash Cost and Total Cash Cost will increase by approximately $37 per ounce of gold equivalent recovered.
10. Mineral Proven and Probable Ore Reserves
Recoverable proven and probable reserves summarized below have been calculated as of February 22, 2012, in accordance with Industry Guide 7 as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Canadian National Instrument 43-101 “Standards of Disclosure for Mineral Projects.” The reserves were estimated by SRK as part of the Feasibility Study.
(table of contents)
SRK is an independent and internationally recognized mine engineering firm with experts in mining, geology and reserve determination.
Proven and probable reserves were determined by the use of mapping, drilling, sampling, assaying and evaluation methods generally applied in the mining industry, as more fully discussed below. The term “reserve,” as used in the reserve data presented here, means that part of a mineral deposit that can be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. The term “proven reserves” means reserves for which (1) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; (2) grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling; and (3) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurements are spaced so closely and the geologic character is sufficiently defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established.
The term “probable reserves” means reserves for which quantity and grade are computed from information similar to that used for proven reserves but the sites for sampling are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Our reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical studies. In the future, we may periodically conduct studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic values and to manage risk. We may revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest available studies and commodity price assumptions.
Mineral reserves were estimated from a pit design based on $1,200/oz. gold and $20/oz. silver prices, which at the time were approximately the average prices of gold and silver over a three-year look-back period. The cutoff grade used to estimate reserves was 0.006 oz/t gold equivalent (0.20 grams/tonne) and is the internal cutoff grade. Equivalent gold grade was calculated using a 52:1 silver to gold ratio. Multiple pit scenarios were evaluated using these criteria under a range of gold prices to determine the most favorable pit design for both optimal resource extraction and cash flow.
Below is a summary of the mineral proven and probable ore reserves as of February 22, 2012.
Mineral Reserves Statement, Centennial Gold-Silver Deposit,
White Pine County, Nevada
SRK Consulting (Inc.)
*Reported silver grade is cyanide soluble. ** Some numbers may not add due to rounding
11. Mining Operations
No mining operations have occurred on the project within the past 15 years.
12. Permitting
In November 2012 MH-LLC filed the Centennial-Seligman Mining Project, White Pine County, Nevada, Mine Plan of Operations (“PoO”) with the United States Forest Service (“USFS”) - Humbolt-Toiyabe National Forest for operating a gold and silver mine at Mt. Hamilton. The PoO describes the activities and facilities that are proposed on USFS administered lands. The USFS is the primary regulatory agency responsible for managing the permitting process. The major components described in the PoO are mining activities from two open pits (the Centennial and Seligman deposits), a waste disposal area, ore stockpiles and crushing facilities, transfer of ore off-site to private property (owned by MH-LLC) for processing via underground conveyance, mine operations office and truck shop facilities, access and haul roads, power lines, water supply well and associated infrastructure including pipelines, and exploration drill roads. Total proposed surface disturbance on USFS lands is currently estimated at 406.21 acres.
In addition to the proposed mining activities on USFS land MH-LLC has applied for a right of way from the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) for access to facilities planned for construction on private land owned by MH-LLC. These facilities include administrative infrastructure for the Mt. Hamilton Project and a processing facility to treat ore from the Centennial-Seligman Mining Project. These facilities, planned for construction on private land, are being permitted through the Nevada
(table of contents)
Division of Environmental Protection (NDEP). In addition, an application for a reclamation permit for the processing facility was filed with the NDEP in December 2012.
13. Planned Exploration, Development and Permitting
Solitario’s focus for 2013 is to advance environmental permitting for the project. The most important component of permitting will be approval of the Plan of Operations. The Plan of Operations is currently being reviewed by the USFS to determine its completeness, and then to develop and manage the appropriate permitting path and activities for the project. It is planned that an application for a Water Pollution Control Permit will be filed with the NDEP in the first quarter of 2013.
Other planned activities for 2013 are additional drilling south of the Centennial reserves in an area called Wheeler Ridge, metallurgical testing of Seligman mineralization to determine gold and silver recoveries, additional reserve and resource modeling of both the Centennial and Seligman deposits incorporating the 2012 drilling and 2013 metallurgical results, and an update of the project’s economic model.
Bongará Zinc Project (Peru)
1. Property Description and Location
The Bongará project consists of 16 concessions comprising 12,600 hectares of mineral rights granted to Minera Bongará
S.A., a subsidiary of ours incorporated in Peru. The property is located in the Department of Amazonas, northern Peru. On August 15, 2006 Solitario signed a Letter Agreement with Votorantim Metais Cajamarquilla, S.A., a wholly owned subsidiary of Votorantim Metais (both companies referred to as "Votorantim"), on Solitario's 100%-owned Bongará zinc project. On March 24, 2007, Solitario signed a definitive agreement, the Framework Agreement for the Exploration and Potential Development of Mining Properties, (the "Framework Agreement") pursuant to, and replacing, the previously signed Bongará Letter Agreement with Votorantim Metais. Solitario's and Votorantim's property interests are held through the ownership of shares in Minera Bongará S.A., a joint operating company that holds a 100% interest in the mineral rights and other project assets. Solitario currently
owns 100% of the shares in Minera Bongará S.A.
Votorantim can earn up to a 70% shareholding interest in the joint operating company by funding future annual exploration and development expenditures until a production decision is made or the agreement is terminated. The option to earn the 70% interest can be exercised by Votorantim at any time by committing to place the project into production based upon a feasibility study and making certain minimum annual exploration and development expenditures. Through December 31, 2012, Votorantim has met all minimum annual exploration and development commitments. Votorantim is the project manager. Votorantim, in its sole discretion, may elect to terminate the option to earn the 70% interest at any time. In addition, Votorantim is required to make annual delayed rental payments of $200,000, until Solitario receives notice that certain expenditure minimums have been met or a production decision is made. Once Votorantim has fully funded its $18.0 million work commitment and committed to place the project into production based upon a feasibility study, it has further agreed to finance Solitario's 30% participating interest through production. Solitario will repay the loan facility through 50% of Solitario's cash flow distributions from the joint operating company.
According to Peruvian law, concessions may be held indefinitely, subject only to payment of annual fees to the government. In June 2013 payments of approximately $99,000 to the Peruvian government will be due in order to maintain the mineral rights of Minera Bongará. Votorantim is responsible for paying these costs as part of its work commitment. Peru also imposes a sliding scale net smelter return royalty (NSR) on all precious and base metal production. This NSR assesses a tax of 1% on all gross proceeds from production up to $60,000,000, a 2% NSR on proceeds between $60,000,000 and $120,000,000 and a 3% NSR on proceeds in excess of $120,000,000.
Votorantim signed a new surface rights agreement with the local community in 2009, which controls the surface of the primary area of interest of our Bongará joint venture. This agreement provides for an annual payment of approximately $31,000 and funding for mutually agreed social development programs in return for the right to perform exploration work including road building and drilling. From time to time Votorantim enters into surface rights agreements with individual landowners or communities to provide access for exploration work. Generally, these are short-term agreements.
Environmental permits are required for exploration and development projects in Peru that involve drilling, road building or underground mining. The requisite environmental and archeological studies were completed for all past work, but new studies are ongoing to allow for the expanded activities planned for future years. Although we believe that these permits
(table of contents)
will be obtained in a timely fashion, the timing of government approval of permits remains beyond our control.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The Bongará property is accessed by the paved Carretera Marginal road, which provides access from the coastal city of Chiclayo. The nearest town is Pedro Ruiz located 15 kilometers southeast of the property, and the Carretera Marginal is situated approximately eight kilometers south of the deposit. The area of the majority of past drilling and the most prospective mineralization, Florida Canyon, is currently inaccessible by road, the work to date having been done by either foot or helicopter access. Votorantim began construction of a 40-kilometer road to the deposit in October 2010 and has completed 23-kilometers of its length. Completion of the road is anticipated in the second half of 2013. Votorantim maintains project field offices in Pedro Ruiz and a drill core processing facility and operations office in the nearby community of Shipasbamba. The climate is tropical and the terrain is mountainous and jungle covered. Seasonal rains hamper exploration work for four to five months of the year by limiting access. Several small villages are located within five kilometers of the drilling area.
3. History
We discovered the Florida Canyon mineralized zone of the Bongará Project in 1996. Subsequently, we optioned the property in December 1996 to Cominco (now Teck Resources). Cominco drilled 80 core holes from 1997-2000. Cominco withdrew from the joint venture in February 2001. We maintained the claims from 2001 to 2006, until the Votorantim Letter Agreement was signed. Votorantim has conducted surface drilling on an annual basis from 2006 to present and underground tunneling underground drilling from 2010 to present. All significant work on the property has been conducted by Cominco, and more recently by Votorantim, and is described below in Section 5, “Prior Exploration.”
4. Geological Setting
The geology of the Bongará area is relatively simple consisting of a sequence of Jurassic and Triassic clastic and carbonate rocks which are gently deformed. The Mississippi Valley type zinc-lead mineralization occurs in the carbonate facies of the Chambara (rock) Formation. This sedimentary sequence is part of what is referred to as the Pucura Group that hosts mineral deposits throughout Peru.
5. Prior Exploration
We conducted a regional stream sediment survey and reconnaissance geological surveys leading to the discovery of the Florida Canyon area in 1996. The discovered outcropping mineralization is located in two deeply incised canyons within the limestone stratigraphy.
Subsequent to our initial work, Cominco conducted extensive mapping, soil and rock sampling, stream sediment surveys and drilling. This work was designed to determine the extent and grade of the zinc-lead mineralization, the controls of mineral deposition and to identify areas of potential new mineralization. Votorantim began work in the fall of 2006 and has worked continuously on the project since then. All work performed by us, Cominco or Votorantim was done by direct employees of the respective companies with the exception of the drilling, underground tunneling, helicopter services and road building, all of which were performed by third-party contractors under the direction of Votorantim.
6. Mineralization
Mineralization occurs as massive to semi-massive replacements of sphalerite and galena localized by specific sedimentary facies (rock strata) within the limestone stratigraphy and by structural feeders and karst breccias. A total of eleven preferred beds for replacement mineralization have been located within the middle unit of the Chambara Formation. Mineralization is associated with the conversion of limestone to dolomite, which creates porosity and permeability within the rock formations, promoting the passage of mineralizing fluids through the rock formations forming stratigraphically controlled near-horizontal manto deposits and structurally controlled near-vertical replacement deposits. Drilling of stratigraphic targets has shown that certain coarser facies of the stratigraphy are the best hosts for mineralization.
Karst features are localized along faults and locally produce "breakout zones" where mineralization may extend vertically across thick stratigraphic intervals along the faults where collapse breccias have been replaced by ore minerals. Mineralized karst structures are up to fifty meters in width. The stratigraphically controlled mineralization is typically one to several meters in thickness, but locally attains thicknesses of eight to ten meters. Generally the stratigraphic mineralization, while thinner, is of higher grade and laterally more extensive. Evidence for these breakout zones is provided by the following drill holes from various locations on the property:
(table of contents)
The middle unit of the Chambara formation, where mineralized, is commonly dolomitized within the zone of highest permeability. Dolomitization reaches stratigraphic thicknesses in excess of 100 meters locally. This alteration is thought to be related to the mineralizing event in most cases and is an important exploration tool. Continuity of the mineralization is thought to be demonstrable in areas of highest drilling density by correlation of mineralization within characteristic sedimentary facies typical of specific stratigraphic intervals or within through-going observable structural zones in drill core.
7. Drilling
From 1997 through 2001, Cominco drilled 80 surface core holes totaling 24,696 meters. From 2006-2012, Votorantim completed 248 surface core holes totaling 69,648 meters. From 2011-2012, Votorantim completed 70 underground core holes totaling 12,328 meters. The majority of Votorantim’s surface drilling was infill drilling designed to demonstrate the continuity and geometry of mineralization, and to a lesser extent, test for extensions of known mineralization. The underground drilling was conducted from eight drill stations at approximately 40-meter centers and entirely within the San Jorge mineralized zone. Anywhere from two to fourteen holes were drilled from each of the eight drill stations. The underground drilling was tightly spaced and designed to allow for feasibility-level reserve estimation.
All drilling conducted is within a footprint measuring approximately 2.5 kilometers long in a north-south direction and a little over a kilometer in an east-west direction. The entire drill pattern is within what we have informally labeled the Florida Canyon district. Within this district, several zones of strong zinc mineralization have been defined. The two zones with the most amount of drilling are the San Jorge and the Karen-Milagros zones. Drilling indicates that, for the most part, the entire Florida Canyon district remains open to expansion.
8. Sampling, Analysis and Security of Samples
Core samples were transported from the drill by helicopter in sealed boxes to the processing facility in Shipasbamba where they were split by a diamond saw. Half of the core was taken of intervals selected according to geologic criteria under the supervision of the geologist in charge and shipped in sealed bags by land. Cominco used SGS Laboratories and Votorantim used ALS-Chemex, both in Lima, Peru, where all samples were analyzed by ICP. Any samples that contained greater than 1% zinc were then analyzed by wet chemistry assay for zinc and lead to provide a more accurate analysis of grade.
Since August 2006, Votorantim has been in control of all field activities on the project and is responsible for the security of samples. Votorantim has indicated to us that there have been no breaches in the security of the samples. We have reviewed Votorantim's sampling procedures and believe that adequate procedures are in place to ensure the future security and integrity of samples. No breaches of security of samples are known to have occurred prior to Votorantim's work on the project.
9. Pre-Feasibility Studies
Votorantim, either through its engineering staff, or contracted independent mining engineering firms has conducted prefeasibility-level studies to provide estimates of deposit size and grade, sizing of appropriate scale of operations, infrastructure design, and capital and operating cost estimates. Votorantim has engaged an independent metallurgical testing firm to evaluate metal recoveries and various processing options for mineralized material at Florida Canyon. Based upon 2012 test work, the recommended processing method consists of a combination of standard flotation recovery and heavy media separation that is capable of recovering both sulfide and oxide mineralization. Recovery optimization testing will continue in 2013.
10. Reserves and Resources
There are no reported mineral reserves or resources.
(table of contents)
11. Mining Operations
No commercial mining operations to recover metals have occurred on the project. However, in September 2010 Votorantim initiated an underground tunneling program to access mineralization. As of December 31, 2012, 590 meters of tunneling were completed.
12. Planned Exploration and Development
Work in 2013 will focus on activities necessary to complete a prefeasibility study and then to transition to feasibility-level work for 2014. As part of this program, permitting for a new 700-meter long tunnel to provide underground access and drilling platforms in the Karen-Milagros zone of the Florida Canyon deposit is planned, as well as permitting an extension of the existing San Jorge tunnel a further 300 meters to the south to test for the continuation of high-grade mineralization. Detailed drilling from both these tunnels will provide feasibility-level reserve information. Construction of these new tunnels is currently scheduled for 2014. A total of 15,000 meters of both surface and underground drilling is scheduled this year. Other work scheduled includes additional metallurgical testing, more detailed engineering of site infrastructure, update the deposit model, additional hydrologic and geotechnical studies, and continued access road construction to the mine site. Permitting and social development activities with surrounding communities will also continue throughout 2013.
Pedra Branca Platinum-Palladium Metals Project (Brazil)
1. Property Description, Location and Physiography
The Pedra Branca platinum-palladium (“PGM”) project consisted of 57 exploration concessions totaling approximately 70,000 hectares in Ceará State, Brazil. The property is held 100% by Pedra Branca do Mineração S.A. ("PBM"), a Brazilian entity. We hold a 49% interest in PBM and Anglo Platinum Ltd. (“Anglo”) owns a 51% interest as of December 31, 2012. Eldorado Gold Corporation is entitled to a 2% NSR royalty on 10 of the concessions totaling 10,000 hectares.
On January 28, 2003, we entered into a Letter Agreement with Anglo whereby Anglo could earn various incremental interests in PBM up to a 65% interest. On July 14, 2006, we signed the Pedra Branca Framework Agreement with Anglo that specified actions we and Anglo would take to establish and govern PBM, and the mechanics for Anglo's continued funding of Pedra Branca operations. On April 24, 2007, we signed the definitive Shareholders Agreement with Anglo for the exploration and development of the Pedra Branca Project.
Anglo earned a 51% interest in PBM by funding $7.0 million as of July 21, 2010. Anglo can earn an additional 9% interest in PBM (for a total of 60%) by completing either (i) a bankable feasibility study or (ii) spending an additional $10.0 million on exploration or development, whichever comes first. Anglo can also earn an additional 5% interest in PBM (for a total of 65%) by arranging for 100% financing to put the project into commercial production. In 2012 Anglo assumed management of all administrative and operational functions at PBM. Previously, Solitario was the project manager.
The mineral interests currently held by PBM are subject to the mining regulations of Brazil that provide for annual lease payments to the government and a royalty of 0.2% on the sales proceeds for precious metals, excluding gold, which is subject to a 3% royalty. PBM’s land payments for 2013 are projected to be approximately $135,000 including annual claim maintenance payments to the government and smaller surface rights payments to local landowners. Prior to mining on the claims PBM must reach an agreement with the surface rights owners of the affected land.
Access to the project is by paved road from the deep-water port city of Fortaleza and by local farm roads. Local access is constructed where necessary. The largest towns in the immediate vicinity of the project are Pedra Branca and Boa Viagem. A field camp is located at the small community of Capitao Mor. The climate is warm and dry for eight months of the year with a warm wet season prevailing for the remaining four months (December-March). Year-round operations can be conducted. The topography is rolling to flat and vegetation is sparse to heavy brush. The elevation ranges from 500 to 800 meters.
2. History
In the 1980's Rio Tinto Ltd., ("Rio Tinto") and Gencore, Ltd. ("Gencore") performed exploration work, including drilling, on part of the project now operated by us. In October 2000, we completed a Plan of Arrangement whereby we acquired Altoro Gold Corp. ("Altoro"). We have since acquired additional concessions through our subsidiary Altoro Mineração, Ltda. to cover extensions of the mineralized trend.
(table of contents)
Altoro, prior to the Plan of Arrangement with us, conducted surface work, drilled 18 core holes and entered into a Joint Venture agreement with Rockwell Ventures, Inc. ("Rockwell") of Vancouver, British Columbia. Rockwell conducted further surface exploration and drilled an additional 31 holes. Rockwell terminated its agreement with us in June 2001. From July 2001 until late 2002, we conducted geochemical sampling and geophysical surveys and independently drilled 22 diamond drill holes. From January 2003 to date, Anglo has funded six drilling programs that focused on better defining the Esbarro and Curiu deposits, further testing the Cedro, Trapia and Santo Amaro prospects, and initial drill testing of 20 other target areas.
3. Geological Setting and Mineralization
The project lies within an Archean-aged block in the Brazilian shield, which is characterized by amphibolite grade metamorphic rocks of various compositions. The most common rock types in the area are unmineralized intermediate to felsic composition gneisses and granitic intrusive phases. All of the rocks have been folded and faulted to differing degrees during dynamic metamorphism. PGM mineralization occurs in specific stratigraphic intervals within a segmented mafic-ultramafic layered complex. The mineralized intervals comprise concordant layers, originally of composition varying from peridotite to dunite that have been variably altered to serpentine, amphibole and talc. These layers contain chromite and/or minor sulfides of iron, copper and/or nickel. In many cases the PGM mineralization is associated with the mineral chromite. In other areas the PGM is more closely related with minor sulfide concentration. Within PGM-enriched ultramafics, grade and thickness can vary considerably. Widths encountered vary from less than a meter to tens of meters in interpreted true thickness. A number of separate ultramafic bodies have been delineated, some of which contain the PGM-bearing stratigraphic intervals. Approximately 26 prospects have been located within the project area. All of these identified prospects display either anomalous PGM values in soils or rocks and/or magnetic signatures indicating the presence of magnetic minerals. Drilling has intersected significant mineralization on 13 of the prospects.
4. Prior Exploration and Drilling
Surface exploration conducted, initially by Altoro, and subsequently by Rockwell, us and then PBM, has generally been focused to identify outcroppings of ultramafic rocks, detect anomalous concentrations of PGM in soils or rocks, and magnetic geophysical surveys to detect magnetic minerals often associated with PGM mineralization. Detailed geologic mapping has been conducted over some of the known ultramafic rock outcroppings to determine the source of anomalous PGM values and to plan the specific locations for drill testing.
Through the end of 2012, a total 354 holes totaling 26,391 meters of core drilling were completed on the project. The table below summarizes the various drilling programs conducted on the property.
The Esbarro prospect, with 107 holes, has the largest database of information of the drilled prospects. Drilling was conducted on approximately
30 to 50-meter spaced centers. The Curiu prospect is the second most detailed prospect drilled with 50 holes completed to date. Drilling was conducted on generally 25-meter spaced centers. Additional drill holes have been completed at Santa Amaro, at Trapia I, at Trapia West and on the Cedro I through Cedro IV prospects. Drill spacing on these latter prospects range from 50 to 200 meters. Although significant mineralized material was encountered in many of the drill holes within these nine deposits, PBM has not undertaken a formal estimate of reserves or resources as PBM believes additional work is required to make such an estimate. Based on drill results to date, PBM believes the prospects Esbarro, Cedro I, II, III and IV, Curiu, Trapia I, Trapia West and Santo Amaro exhibit results that may warrant further definition drilling. We believe that sampling and sample security procedures implemented by us or by others that generated project data, meets or exceeds industry and regulatory quality control standards.
5. Mineral Reserve Estimations and Mining Operations
There are no reported reserves and no current mining operations associated with this project.
6. Planned Exploration
(table of contents)
Anglo will plan and manage the 2013 work program. Anglo has indicated the program will consist of helicopter-borne geophysics on closely spaced flight lines traversing areas potentially underlain by ultramafic rocks. Ultramafic rocks are highly magnetic and detectable by geophysics. Ultramafic rocks are also the host to all PGM mineralization identified on the property. Anglo has indicated it will re-log selected drill core to better interpret the geology and geometry of the mineralization. If the geophysical program is successful in identifying new ultramafic bodies, Anglo has indicated PBM may also drill certain areas at Pedra Branca during late-2013 or in the first half of 2014.
Pachuca Norte Silver-Gold Property (Mexico)
1. Property Description, Location and Physiography
As of year-end 2012, the Pachuca Norte property (formerly referred to as “Pachuca-Real”) consisted of approximately 19,048 hectares of mineral rights encompassing about 10% of the historic Pachuca Norte del Monte silver-gold mining district of central Mexico, but mainly areas situated to the north and northwest of the historic district, termed the North District, and areas east of the historic district. Solitario owns 100% of the property, except for the 6,240-hectare El Cura claim, that is subject to an Option to Purchase Agreement (the “Agreement”) with a private Mexican party signed in May 2006. The Agreement, as subsequently amended, requires Solitario to pay $15,000 every six months, starting in May 2012, to the underlying owner to keep the option in good standing. By October 2014, Solitario must either exercise the option to acquire 100% interest in the concession by paying the underlying owner $500,000, or the option will terminate. Solitario may terminate its option at any time without any further costs. Concession fees due to the government of Mexico are expected to total approximately $95,000 in 2013 and option payments to private individuals are expected to total approximately $40,000 in 2013 to keep properties in good standing.
In March 2013 we signed a binding Letter of Intent (“LOI”) with Minera Hochschild Mexico S.A. de C.V. (“Hochschild”), a wholly owned subsidiary of Hochschild Mining plc. The LOI provides for Hochschild to earn a 51% interest in the property by funding the following exploration commitments from the signing of a definitive agreement:
Hochschild will have the option to earn an additional 19% (total interest 70%) by funding all project expenditures necessary to complete a positive feasibility study. Hochschild will manage the operations and has the right to terminate the joint venture at any time. Currently, we are working on negotiating a definitive joint venture agreement with Hochschild. There can be no assurance that such an agreement will ultimately be signed.
The project is located about 80 kilometers north of Mexico City near the city of Pachuca. Access is excellent throughout much of the project area with moderately maintained gravel roads. The city of Pachuca, with excellent modern infrastructure, lies in the southern portion of the property. The project topography ranges in elevation from 2,100 to 3,000 meters. The climate ranges from semi-arid in the lower elevations, which tend to be sparsely vegetated; to temperate in the higher elevations, that tend to be well-forested.
2. History
The Pachuca district has a long, nearly unbroken history of silver and gold production beginning somewhere around 1550 by the Spaniards. Total silver production during this five and a half-century period is estimated at approximately 1.4 billion ounces of silver and more than seven million ounces of gold. Nearly 80% of its total production occurred during a 60-year period from 1900 to 1960. Mining in the old district ceased in 2004 due to the depletion of ore reserves. Our claim position, predominantly situated north of the historic district, was held by the Mexican government from 1947 to the early 1990's, whereupon the concessions were sold to a private Mexican company and held by that same company until early 2006, when the land became free to staking. We immediately applied, and were granted, title to the concessions.
Solitario conducted surface exploration work during the first half of 2006 identifying a number of silver-gold vein targets. On September 25, 2006, we signed a definitive venture agreement regarding the Pachuca project with Newmont de Mexico, Sde C.V. ("Newmont"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation. In December 2008
(table of contents)
Newmont terminated its right to earn an interest in the property and Solitario retained its 100% interest in the property. On April 27, 2010, Solitario signed a definitive Venture Agreement with Compañia de Minas Buenaventura S.A.A. (“Buenaventura”). In December 2011 Buenaventura terminated its right to earn an interest in the property and Solitario retained a 100% interest in the property. Both Newmont and Buenaventura conducted significant surface exploration work and core drilling.
3. Geological Setting and Mineralization
The geology of the Pachuca Norte project area is dominated by a thick sequence of Tertiary-aged volcanic and volcanic-related rock formations of dominantly andesitic composition that is cut by a series of younger quartz porphyry and dacite porphyry dikes. The andesitic volcanic rocks are the dominant host-rock to mineralization, are gently dipping on a regional scale, but locally display moderate dips of up to 40 degrees. Basement rocks within the project area consist of Cretaceous-aged sedimentary rocks. Overlying the andesitic volcanic rocks is a sequence of volcanic and volcanic-related rocks that are primarily dacitic composition. These rocks are generally post-mineralization in age.
The historic Pachuca Norte del Monte mining district is a classic large-scale vein district nearly 11 kilometers in an east-west direction and 7 kilometers in a north-south direction. Hundreds of near-vertical veins associated with fractures, faults and dikes occur throughout the district and typically have a west-northwest to east-southeast trend, except in the Real del Monte area that has a north-south trend. The major veins have productive stopes in excess of a kilometer in length, up to 600 meters in vertical extent and 1-5 meters in average width. The veins are characterized by low sulfide and base metal content and weak wallrock alteration. Historical average grades for the district are 500 g/t silver and 2.5 g/t gold.
In the North District, discrete vein systems are distributed over an area 20 kilometers long in an east-west direction and 10 kilometers wide in a north-south direction. Thirty-eight separate vein swarms have been identified and mapped. Geologically the mineralization both at surface and in drill core is very similar to the historic district. Specifically, mineralization consists of veins characterized by low sulfide and base metal content with weak alteration. Veins identified to date tend to be narrow, generally a meter or less thick. Some vein systems, however, display multiple parallel vein structures with over 10 separate vein intercepts.
4. Prior Exploration and Drilling
The old Pachuca Norte del Monte mining district has been intensely explored and mined throughout its long history, but this is not the area of our current exploration focus. We believe the area of greatest potential lies about 10 kilometers north of the main district and an area immediately east of the historic district. Exploration in this area (North District) during the past 60 years was restricted to mainly surface sampling with a very limited amount of drilling and tunneling. We compiled all the historical data that we were able to obtain and conducted a limited surface rock and soil sampling program in the first half of 2006, prior to Newmont becoming our joint venture partner. Newmont collected a total of 2,865 geochemical samples from outcrops, dumps, old mine workings, and channel samples and also conducted detailed geologic mapping to define drill targets. Buenaventura collected approximately 1,700 geochemical samples from the surface and existing underground workings.
Newmont tested 11 different target areas in 2007 and 2008 by completing 19 core holes totaling 7,873 meters. Ten of the holes intersected significant mineralization in six different prospects. Buenaventura completed a 38-hole core drilling program totaling 13,489 meters in 2011. Twenty of the holes intersected at least one interval grading in excess of 100 grams per tonne silver equivalent. Most of the holes were widely spaced on 17 separate vein prospects scattered over an area measuring 14 kilometers by 8 kilometers. The 10 best drill hole intercepts are presented in the table below.
*True thickness has not been determined and could be substantially less than the drill width for some intervals.
(table of contents)
We have reviewed both Newmont’s and Buenaventura’s sampling procedures and believe they meet or exceed industry and regulatory quality control standards.
5. Mineral Reserve Estimations and Mining Operations
There are no reported reserves and no current mining operations associated with this project.
6. Planned Exploration
Hochschild is currently planning an exploration program for 2013. Hochschild has indicated that their plans include drilling core holes that offset well-mineralized previous drill holes to determine the trend of mineralization. If a definitive agreement is not ultimately signed with Hochschild, we plan to maintain the property in good standing for 2013.
Chambara Zinc Property (Peru)
On April 4, 2008, we signed the Minera Chambara shareholders agreement with Votorantim Metais Cajamarquilla, S.A., a wholly owned subsidiary of Votorantim Metais (both companies referred to as "Votorantim") for the exploration of a large area of interest in northern Peru measuring approximately 200 by 85 kilometers. Votorantim is the project manager, and funds and conducts all exploration on the project. Votorantim contributed 52 mineral concessions within the area of interest totaling 52,000 hectares to Minera Chambara for a 15% interest in Minera Chambara. We contributed 9,600 hectares of mineral claims and certain exploration data in our possession for an 85% interest in Minera Chambara. Existing and future acquired properties subject to the terms of the shareholders agreement will be held by Minera Chambara. As of December 31, 2012, Minera Chambara’s only assets are the properties and Minera Chambara has no debt. Votorantim may increase its shareholding interest to 49% by expending $6,250,000 over seven years and may increase its interest to 70% by funding a feasibility study and providing for construction financing for Solitario's interest. If Votorantim provides such construction financing, we would repay that financing, including interest, from 80% of Solitario's portion of the project cash flow.
In 2010 Votorantim placed the project on care and maintenance, focusing all of their efforts on the Bongará project. The only field work conducted in 2012 and planned for 2013 is social work in preparation for any future exploration programs. Minera Chambara now controls 176 concessions totaling approximately 145,300 hectares of mineral rights. In June 2013 payments of approximately $462,000 to the Peruvian government will be due by Votorantim in order to maintain the mineral rights.
Newmont Alliance (Peru)
On January 18, 2005, we signed a Strategic Alliance Agreement (the "Alliance Agreement") with Newmont Overseas Exploration Limited ("Newmont"), to explore for gold in South America (the "Strategic Alliance"). Concurrent with the signing of the Alliance Agreement, Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada purchased 2.7 million shares of Solitario (at the time, an approximately
9.9% equity interest) for Cdn$4,590,000. As part of the Alliance Agreement we spent $3,773,000 on exploration on Strategic Alliance areas covered by the Alliance Agreement. Under the terms of the Alliance Agreement, we granted Newmont a 2% net smelter royalty on five properties (“Strategic Alliance Properties”) that fall within Strategic Alliance areas. If we meet certain minimum exploration expenditures on Strategic Alliance Properties, Newmont will have the right to joint venture acquired properties and earn up to a 75% interest by taking the project through feasibility and financing Solitario's retained 25% interest into production. Newmont may elect to earn a lesser interest or no interest at all, in which case it would retain its 2% net smelter return royalty.
As of December 31, 2012 we retain 100%-interest in the La Promesa and Cerro Azul property positions, both of which fall within Strategic Alliance areas and are subject to the provisions of the Newmont Alliance as discussed above. In 2011, we recorded a mineral property write-down of $10,000 for the Paria Cruz property and in 2012 we recorded a mineral property write down of $5,000 for the Excelsior property.
1. La Promesa
The La Promesa property, acquired in 2008, consists of three concessions totaling 2,600 hectares. Our only holding costs for the mineral rights are annual payments of three dollars per hectare to the Peruvian government. In February 2012 Newmont
(table of contents)
waived its right to joint venture La Promesa and allowed us to potentially joint venture the project with another company. During 2013 we hope to secure a joint venture partner to advance the project.
At least five high-grade polymetallic veins have been identified and sampled at surface. Two of the veins, about 300 meters apart, have been traced for at least 400 meters along strike. There appears to be a systematic trend towards greater vein thickness with depth, as the widest observed vein in outcrop occurs at the lowest elevation sampled to date. Channel sampling along 300 meters of strike length from the best exposed vein yielded the following high-grade results:
2. Cerro Azul
The Cerro Azul property acquired in 2007 consists of three concessions totaling 2,400 hectares. The geology of the property consists of Tertiary volcanics cut by a system of parallel quartz veins. Veins are up to two meters wide and can be traced along strike up to 1.2 kilometers. Some of the veins are polymetallic in character, within a low-sulfidation geologic environment. Other veins are gold-rich and locally occur in sheeted zones of up to 80 meters in width. In 2011 we completed 11 core holes totaling 2,016 meters on four different vein systems. The holes were widely scattered over an area measuring 2,200 meters long by 1,400 meters wide. Seven of the drill holes intersected mineralization.
Norcan Copper Property (Mexico)
In June 2010 we applied for mineral rights on property north of the Cananea mine, a major copper producer, in the State of Sonora, Mexico. We received title to two concessions totaling 35,991 hectares in 2012. Geochemical and biogeochemical surveys in this area exhibit locally anomalous copper values. Most of the area is covered by recent gravel deposits, but in several areas moderately to strongly altered intrusive rocks have been mapped.
On March 2, 2012, we signed a joint venture agreement with MMG Mexico Exploration, S.A. de C.V. (“MMG”), a wholly owned subsidiary of MMG Mining Ltd. The agreement provides for MMG to earn a 70% interest in the property by funding the following exploration commitments:
MMG manages the exploration operations and has the right to terminate the joint venture at any time. MMG conducted core drilling on the property during the first quarter of 2013. Assay results from the drill holes are pending.
Royalty Properties
Yanacocha Royalty Property (Peru)
The Yanacocha royalty property consists of 69 concessions totaling approximately 61,000 hectares in northern Peru, 25 kilometers north of the city of Cajamarca. The property position consists of a rectangular-shaped contiguous block of concessions nearly 50 kilometers long in an east-west direction and 25 kilometers wide in a north-south direction. The southern boundary of the royalty property abuts Newmont Mining Corporation's Minera Yanacocha mining operation, a large gold mine currently in operation. We held 100% interest in the concessions until April 2000, at which time we signed an agreement with Newmont Peru, Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation (both companies referred to as "Newmont"), whereby we sold our Yanacocha Property to Newmont for $6,000,000 and a sliding scale net smelter return royalty ("NSR-Royalty") that varied from two to five percent, depending on the price of gold.
(table of contents)
In January 2005 we signed an Amended and Restated Royalty Grant with Minera Los Tapados S.A., a subsidiary of Newmont Peru Limited, Minera Yanacocha S.R.L., and Minera Chaupiloma Dos de Cajamarca, S.R.L. (affiliates of Newmont Peru, Ltd., collectively "Newmont Peru") to modify the NSR-Royalty schedule. The modified royalty structure is classified into several categories, depending on the type of process used to recover each metal, gold and copper prices, as well as any government royalty burden imposed by Peru on the project ores. Assuming the current maximum royalty due the government of Peru and gold prices above $500 per ounce, our gold royalty ranges from 1% to 2¾%, our silver royalty would be 2% and our copper royalty would be 1%. As part of the NSR-Royalty modification, Newmont Peru, through its subsidiaries, agreed to spend an aggregate of $4.0 million on Solitario's royalty property over an eight year period. Newmont has met all of its required expenditure requirements through December 31, 2012. No resources or reserves have been reported by Newmont, nor has any mining been conducted on the property.
Mercurio (Surubim) Gold Property (Brazil)
The Mercurio gold property is located in Para State in Northern Brazil, approximately 250 km south of the town of Itaituba. It consists of three exploration concessions totaling 8,476 hectares. In November 2010 Solitario signed a definitive agreement with Regent Holdings, Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Brazilian Gold Corporation (“BGC”), whereby Solitario agreed to transfer its rights to the property to BGC, providing that BGC complete the following: (i) take over Solitario’s underlying property obligations; (ii) pay Solitario $1,000,000 over a four year period; and (iii) invest a minimum of $900,000 in exploration expenditures over the same period. BGC made its initial payment of $50,000 in October 2011. In December 2012, we amended the agreement with BGC whereby the property payment schedule provides that BGC paid Solitario $100,000 on December 14, 2012, and will make further payments of $100,000 in October 2013 and a final payment of $650,000 in October 2014, with the final payment pending the government issuing title to one concession at the property. Upon the completion of all payments, BGC will own Mercurio and Solitario will retain a 1.5% NSR royalty on the first 2 million ounces of gold production and a 2.0% NSR royalty on all ounces of gold produced over 2 million ounces. BGC may terminate the agreement at any time after six months from the date of signing the agreement. BGC is responsible for all payments to keep the Mercurio claims in good standing during the period of the agreement. With exception of small scale artisanal mining for gold by gravity methods that has been conducted on the property for the past 15 years, there are no mining operations on the property. On January 28, 2013, BGC made a news release that estimated resources on the property. BGC refers to the project as the Surubim project.
100%-Owned Properties
Aconchi Copper Property (Mexico)
The 8,200-hectare Aconchi property in northern Sonora, Mexico, was acquired in October 2010. It is an early-stage property that displays copper and other trace element anomalies in soils. Most of the area is covered by pediment gravels. We plan to conduct further geochemical surveys, and possibly conduct a geophysical survey in 2013. We may also seek a joint venture partner to more aggressively test the property.
La Tola Gold Property (Peru)
In October 2003, we acquired the La Tola project to explore for gold and possibly silver. The 3,800-hectare project is located in southern Peru. During 2012, a royalty agreement with Estrella Gold Corp. (“EGC”) was terminated, pursuant to which EGC was earning a 100% interest in the La Tola project, subject to a retained royalty by Solitario. Solitario now owns the La Tola project and is reporting it as a 100% owned project and not a royalty property. Significant surface exploration work, including core drilling, was conducted on the property by our former joint venture partner Newmont Mining. We are currently seeking a joint venture partner.
Canta Colorado Gold Property (Peru)
In 2012 we applied for two exploration concessions totaling 2,000 hectares. Reconnaissance surface exploration indicates this property has the potential to host an epithermal gold deposit in Tertiary volcanic rocks. Pending signing of a surface rights agreement with the local community, we plan to carry out additional surface exploration in 2013 to determine if the project warrants drill testing.
Jaripo Silver-Zinc Property (Mexico)
In December 2011 we optioned the 775-hectare Jaripo silver-zinc project in Sonora, Mexico, from a private Mexican concern. We paid $5,000 initially, and a further $25,000 in December 2011. To acquire a 100% interest in the property Solitario must make certain future option payments. We can elect to terminate the option at any time without any future
(table of contents)
obligations. We are currently evaluating the Jaripo project for further work in 2013.
Atico Gold-Copper Property (Peru)
In April 2010 we acquired 1600 hectares by staking at the Atico property in southern Peru. Rock sampling has identified anomalous gold and copper values in skarn alteration of carbonate and intrusive rocks. We are currently evaluating the Atico project for further work in 2013.
Discontinued Projects
In late 2012 we decided to discontinue all operations in Bolivia and abandoned the Triunfo and Espanola properties and recorded write downs of $20,000 and $5,000, respectively. In Peru, we abandoned the Excelsior property and recoded a $6,000 write down.
During the 2011 we abandoned the Paria Cruz project and recorded a mineral property write down of $10,000. The Paria Cruz property, staked in 2008, consisted of three concessions totaling 3,000 hectares. Exploration results did not support continued work on the property.
GLOSSARY OF MINING TERMS
“Amphibolite” means a metamorphic rock composed chiefly of amphibole and plagioclase and having little or no quartz.
“Assay” means to test minerals by chemical or other methods for the purpose of determining the amount of valuable metals contained.
“Bankable feasibility study” means a comprehensive study of a mineral deposit in which all geological, engineering, legal, operating, economic, social, environmental and other relevant factors are considered in sufficient detail that it could reasonably serve as the basis for a final decision by a financial institution to finance the development of the deposit for mineral production.
“Breccia” means rock consisting of fragments, more or less angular, in a matrix of finer-grained material or of cementing material.
“Claim or Concession” means a mining interest giving its holder the right to prospect, explore for and exploit minerals within a defined area.
“Clastic” means pertaining to rock or rocks composed of fragments or particles of older rocks or previously existing solid matter; fragmental.
“Chromite” means a cubic mineral, ferrous chromate, usually with much of the ferrous iron and aluminum replaced by magnesium, and some of the chromium by ferric iron: the principal ore of chromium.
“Cut-off grade” means the grade below which mineralized material will be considered waste.
“Dacite or Dacitic” means a fine-grained volcanic rock of intermediate composition between mafic and felsic.
“Deposit” means an informal term for an accumulation of mineral ores.
“Development” means work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual ore extraction possible.
“Dolomite” means calcium magnesium carbonate, CaMg (CO3)2, occurring in crystals and in masses.
“Dore” means a mixture of gold and silver cast in bars or bullion, prior to final refining.
“Dunite” means a coarse-grained igneous rock composed almost entirely of olivine.
“Facies” means the appearance and characteristics of a sedimentary deposit, especially as they reflect the conditions and environment of deposition and serve to distinguish the deposit from contiguous deposits.
“Fault” means a fracture in rock along which there has been displacement of the two sides parallel to the fracture.
“Felsic” means rocks consisting chiefly of feldspars, quartz and other light colored materials.
“Granodiorite” means a coarse-grained acid igneous rock which is intermediate in composition between granite and dirorite.
“gpt” means grams per tonne.
“Heap leach” means a gold extraction method that percolates a cyanide solution through ore heaped on an impervious pad or base.
“Hornfels” means a fine-grained metamorphic rock, the result of recrystallization of siliceous or argillaceous sediments by
(table of contents)
contact metamorphism.
“Host rock” means the rock surrounding an ore deposit.
“Karst” means a landscape that is characterized by the features of solution weathering and erosion in the subsurface. These features include caves, sinkholes, disappearing streams, subsurface drainage and deeply incised narrow canyons.
“Mafic” means silicate minerals or rocks that are rich in magnesium and iron. Most mafic minerals are dark in color with a high density.
“Magnetometric” means the results from an analysis utilizing a magnetometer, an instrument for measuring the intensity of a magnetic field, in this case, the earth's magnetic field.
“Manto deposits” means replacement orebodies that are stratabound, irregular to rod shaped ore occurrences usually horizontal or near horizontal in attitude.
“Metasomatic” means rocks that form from a series of metamorphic processes whereby chemical changes occur as a result of the introduction of material, often in hot aqueous solutions, from external sources.
“Mineralization” means the concentration of metals within a body of rock.
“NSR” means net smelter return royalty.
“Olivine” means a group of magnesium iron silicates, (MgFe)2 SiO4, occurring in olive-green to gray-green masses as an important constituent of basic igneous rocks.
“opt” or “oz/ton” means ounces per ton.
“Ore” means material containing minerals that can be economically extracted.
“Ounce” means a troy ounce.
“Oxide” means mineralized rock in which some of the original minerals have been oxidized (i.e., combined with oxygen). Oxidation tends to make the ore more porous and permits a more complete permeation of cyanide solutions so that minute particles of gold in the interior of the minerals will be more readily dissolved.
“Patented mining claim” means a mining claim for which the federal government of the United States has passed its title to the claimant, making it private land. A person may mine and remove minerals from a mining claim without a mineral patent. However, a mineral patent gives the owner exclusive title to the locatable minerals. It also gives the owner title to the surface and other resources.
“Peridotite” means a dense, dark-colored, coarse-grained igneous rock consisting mostly of the minerals olivine and pyroxene. Peridotite is ultramafic in composition, contains less than 45% silica and is high in magnesium and iron.
“Porphyry” means an igneous, usually hard, rock with large crystals embedded in a finer groundmass of minerals.
“Phyllites” means a slate-type rock, the cleavage planes of which have a luster imparted by minute scales of mica.
“Reserves” or “ore reserves” means that part of a mineral deposit, which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
“Sampling” means selecting a fractional, but representative, part of a mineral deposit for analysis.
“Sediment” means solid material settled from suspension in a liquid.
“Shales” means a fine-grained sedimentary rock consisting of compacted and hardened clay, silt, or mud that often forms in many distinct layers and splits easily into thin sheets or slabs.
“Sphalerite” means a very common mineral, zinc sulfide, usually containing some iron and a little cadmium, occurring in yellow, brown, or black crystals or cleavable masses with resinous luster and it is the principal ore of zinc.
“Skarn” means a coarse-grained metamorphic rock formed by the contact metamorphism of carbonate rock often containing garnet, pyroxene epodite and wollastonnite.
“Stockwork” means a rock mass interpenetrated by multiple, tightly packed small veins of mineralization.
“Stope” means an excavation in the form of steps made by the mining of ore from steeply inclined or vertical veins.
“Stratigraphy” means the arrangement of rock strata, especially as to the geographic, chronologic order of sequence (age), classification, characteristics and formation.
“Strike” when used as a noun, means the direction, course or bearing of a vein or rock formation measured on a level surface and, when used as a verb, means to take such direction, course or bearing.
“Stripping ratio” means the ratio of waste to ore in an open pit mine.
(table of contents)
“Sulfide” means a compound of sulfur and some other element.
“Tailings” means material rejected from a mill after most of the valuable minerals have been extracted.
“Ton” means a short ton (2,000 pounds).
“Tonne” means a metric ton that contains 2,204.6 pounds or 1,000 kilograms.
“Vein” means a fissure, fault or crack in a rock filled by minerals that have traveled upwards from some deep source.
“Volcaniclastic” means clastic (made up of fragments of preexisting rocks) rock chiefly composed of volcanic material derived by ejection of volcanic material from a volcanic vent.
Item 3.