Item 2. Properties
Joint Ventures and Strategic Alliance Properties
Bongará Zinc Project (Peru)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Bongará Property)
The Bongará project consists of 16 concessions comprising 12,600 hectares of mineral rights granted to Minera Bongará S.A., our subsidiary incorporated in Peru. The property is located in the Department of Amazonas, northern Peru. On August 15, 2006, Solitario signed a Letter Agreement with Votorantim Metais Cajamarquilla, S.A., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Votorantim Metais (both companies referred to as "Votorantim”) on Solitario's 100%-owned Bongará zinc project (the “Bongará Letter Agreement”). On March 24, 2007, Solitario signed the Framework Agreement with Votorantim for the Exploration and Potential Development of Mining Properties, (the "Framework Agreement") pursuant to, and replacing, the Bongará Letter Agreement. Solitario's and Votorantim's property interests are held through the ownership of shares in Minera Bongará S.A., a joint operating company that holds a 100% interest in the mineral rights and other project assets. Solitario currently owns 39% of the shares in Minera Bongará S.A.
During 2015 Votorantim completed the steps required to earn a 61% interest in the Bongará project, with Solitario retaining a 39% interest. In addition, Solitario consented to the transfer of Votorantim’s interest in both the Bongará and Chambara projects to Compañía Minera Milpo S.A.A. (“Milpo”). Milpo, an 80%-owned affiliate of Votorantim, is traded on the Lima exchange under the symbol MILPOCI.
Milpo may earn an additional 9% interest (up to a 70% shareholding interest) in Minera Bongará S.A., by funding future annual exploration and development expenditures until a production decision is made. The option to earn the 70% interest can be exercised by Milpo at any time by committing to place the project into production based upon a completed feasibility study. Milpo is the project manager. Once Milpo has committed to place the project into production based upon a feasibility study, it has further agreed to finance Solitario's 30% participating interest until production with a loan facility from Milpo to Solitario. Solitario will repay this loan facility through 50% of Solitario's cash flow distributions from the joint operating company.
According to Peruvian law, concessions may be held indefinitely, subject only to payment of annual fees to the government. In June 2017, payments of approximately $140,000 to the Peruvian government will be due in order to maintain the mineral rights of Minera Bongará. Milpo is responsible for paying these costs as part of its work commitment. Peru also imposes a sliding scale net smelter return royalty (“NSR”) on all precious and base metal production of 1% on all gross annual proceeds from production up to $60,000,000, a 2% NSR on annual proceeds between $60,000,000 and $120,000,000 and a 3% NSR on annual proceeds in excess of $120,000,000. From time to time Milpo may enter into surface rights agreements with individual landowners or communities to provide access for exploration work. Generally, these are short-term agreements.
Environmental permits are required for exploration and development projects in Peru that involve drilling, road building or underground mining. The requisite environmental and archeological studies were completed for all past work, but new studies are required for the expanded activities planned for future years. Although we believe that these permits will be obtained in a timely fashion, the timing of government approval of permits remains beyond our control.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The Bongará property is accessed by the paved Carretera Marginal road, which provides access from the coastal city of Chiclayo. The nearest town is Pedro Ruiz located 15 kilometers southeast of the property, and the Carretera Marginal, a heavily travelled paved national highway, is situated approximately eight kilometers south of the deposit. The area of the majority of past drilling and the most prospective mineralization, Florida Canyon, was previously inaccessible by road, the work to date having been done by either foot or helicopter access. Milpo has now completed approximately 30 kilometers of access road. Milpo maintains project field offices in Pedro Ruiz and a drill core processing facility and operations office in the nearby community of Shipasbamba. The climate is tropical and the terrain is mountainous and jungle covered. Seasonal rains hamper exploration work by limiting access for four to five months of the year, November through March. Several small villages are located within five kilometers of the drilling area.
3. History
We discovered the Florida Canyon mineralized zone of the Bongará Project in 1996. Subsequently, we optioned the property in December 1996 to Cominco (now Teck Resources). Cominco drilled 80 core holes from 1997-2000. Cominco withdrew from the joint venture in February 2001, and Solitario retained its 100% interest in the project. We maintained the claims from 2001 to 2006, until the Bongará Letter Agreement was signed. Votorantim conducted surface drilling on an annual basis from 2006 to 2013 and underground tunneling and drilling from 2010 to 2013. All significant work on the property has been conducted by our joint venture partners: Cominco, Votorantim and now Milpo, and is described below in Section 5, “Prior Exploration.”
4. Geological Setting
The geology of the Bongará area is relatively simple consisting of a sequence of Jurassic and Triassic clastic and carbonate rocks which are gently deformed. The Mississippi Valley type zinc-lead mineralization occurs in the carbonate facies of the Chambara (rock) Formation. This sedimentary sequence is part of what is referred to as the Pucura Group that hosts mineral deposits throughout Peru.
5. Prior Exploration
We conducted a regional stream sediment survey and reconnaissance geological surveys leading to the discovery of the Florida Canyon area in 1996. The discovered outcropping mineralization is located in two deeply incised canyons within the limestone stratigraphy.
Subsequent to our initial work, Cominco conducted extensive mapping, soil and rock sampling, stream sediment surveys and drilling. This work was designed to determine the extent and grade of the zinc-lead mineralization, the controls of mineral deposition and to identify areas of potential new mineralization. Votorantim began work in the fall of 2006 and worked continuously on the project until it transferred its interest to Milpo, in 2015. All work performed by us, Cominco, Votorantim or Milpo was done by direct employees of the respective companies with the exception of the drilling, underground tunneling, helicopter services and road building, all of which were performed by third-party contractors under the direction of Cominco, Votorantim or Milpo.
6. Mineralization
Mineralization occurs as massive to semi-massive replacements of sphalerite and galena localized by specific sedimentary facies (rock strata) within the limestone stratigraphy and by structural feeders and karst breccias. Approximately two-thirds of mineralization is sulfide dominant and a third is oxide-dominant. A total of 11 preferred beds for replacement mineralization have been located within the middle unit of the Chambara Formation. Mineralization is associated with the conversion of limestone to dolomite, which creates porosity and permeability within the rock formations, promoting the passage of mineralizing fluids through the rock formations forming stratigraphically controlled near-horizontal manto deposits and structurally controlled near-vertical replacement deposits. Drilling of stratigraphic targets has shown that certain coarser-grained facies of the stratigraphy are the best hosts for mineralization.
Karst features are localized along faults and locally produce "breakout zones" where mineralization may extend vertically across thick stratigraphic intervals along the faults where collapse breccias have been replaced by ore minerals. Mineralized karst structures are up to 50 meters in width (horizontal), up to 100 meters vertically, and up to hundreds of meters along strike.
Evidence for these breakout zones is provided by the following drill holes from various locations on the property:
Stratigraphically controlled mineralization is typically one to several meters in thickness, but often attains thicknesses of five to ten meters. Generally the known stratigraphic mineralization, while thinner, is of higher grade and laterally more extensive.
Dolomitization reaches stratigraphic thicknesses in excess of 100 meters locally. This alteration is thought to be related to the mineralizing event in most cases and is an important exploration tool. Continuity of the mineralization is demonstrable in areas of highest drilling density by correlation of mineralization within characteristic sedimentary facies, typical of specific stratigraphic intervals or within through-going observable structural zones in drill core.
7. Drilling
From 1997 through 2001, Cominco drilled 80 surface core holes totaling 24,696 meters. From 2006-2013, Votorantim completed 309 surface core holes totaling 77,193 meters. From 2011-2013, Votorantim completed 95 underground core holes totaling 15,144 meters. The majority of Votorantim’s surface drilling was infill drilling designed to demonstrate the continuity and geometry of mineralization, and to a lesser extent, test for extensions of known mineralization. The underground drilling was conducted from 10 drill stations at generally 40-meter centers (two drill stations at 20-meter centers) and entirely within the San Jorge mineralized zone. Anywhere from three to 14 holes were drilled from each of the eight drill stations. The underground drilling was tightly spaced and designed to allow for feasibility-level reserve estimation.
All drilling conducted is within a footprint measuring approximately 2.5 kilometers long in a north-south direction and a little over a kilometer in an east-west direction. The entire drill pattern is within what we have informally labeled the Florida Canyon district. Within this district, several zones of strong zinc mineralization have been defined. The two zones with the largest amount of drilling are the San Jorge and the Karen-Milagros zones. Drilling indicates that, for the most part, the entire Florida Canyon district remains open to expansion.
8. Sampling, Analysis and Security of Samples
Core samples were transported from the drill by helicopter in sealed boxes to the processing facility in Shipasbamba where they were split by a diamond saw. Half of the core was taken of intervals selected according to geologic criteria under the supervision of the geologist in charge and shipped in sealed bags by land. Cominco used SGS Laboratories and Votorantim used ALS-Chemex, both in Lima, Peru, where all samples were analyzed by ICP. Any samples that contained greater than 1% zinc were then analyzed by wet chemistry assay for zinc and lead to provide a more accurate analysis of grade.
Since April 2015, Milpo has been in control of all field activities on the project and is responsible for the security of samples. Milpo has indicated to us that there have been no breaches in the security of the samples. We have reviewed and engaged SRK Consulting (USA) Inc. (“SRK”) (a large independent international mining engineering firm) to review Milpo’s sampling procedures and believe that adequate procedures are in place to ensure the future security and integrity of samples. No breaches of security of samples are known to have occurred prior to Milpo’s work on the project.
9. Prefeasibility Studies
Votorantim and Milpo, either through its engineering staff or contracted independent mining engineering firms, has conducted prefeasibility-level studies to provide estimates of deposit size and grade, sizing of appropriate scale of operations, infrastructure design, and capital and operating cost estimates on a scoping level of detail. Votorantim has engaged an independent metallurgical testing firm to evaluate metal recoveries and various processing options for mineralized material at Florida Canyon. Tests to date on composited samples indicate zinc recoveries of 91.8% and lead recoveries of 81.9% in the San Jorge zone and zinc recoveries of 80.3% and lead recoveries of 71.7% in the Karen-Milagros zone.
In 2013 Votorantim drilled 16 diamond core holes evaluating geotechnical and hydrological parameters of the mineralized areas for both engineering and environmental purposes. Votorantim also completed detailed geology-mineralization modeling to develop an internal resource estimate as part of their ongoing pre-feasibility efforts. Additionally, Votorantim completed scoping-level infrastructure design and costing analysis for the project. In 2016, Milpo completed a geochemical/metallurgical study that more accurately defined the distribution of sulfide/oxide mineralization based on re-assaying of past drill hole samples.
10. Reserves and Resources
There are no reported mineral reserves.
11. Mining Operations
No commercial mining operations to recover metals have occurred on the project. However, in September 2010 Votorantim initiated an underground tunneling program to access mineralization. As of December 31, 2016, 700 meters of tunneling were completed.
12. Planned Exploration and Development
In early 2017, Solitario engaged SRK to complete a Preliminary Economic Assessment (“PEA”) of the Florida Canyon deposit. The PEA will be based on Milpo’s recent geochemical/metallurgical work and other previous work, including metallurgical, resource estimation and engineering. The focus of the study will be to characterize the economic potential of the sulfide component of the mineralization. The PEA is expected to be completed by the end of the second-quarter 2017. SRK is an independent and internationally recognized mining engineering firm with offices in both Peru and the United States, among other international locations. SRK previously prepared a NI 43-101 Technical Report on Resources for the Bongará Project in 2014.
Chambara Zinc Property (Peru)
In April 2008, we signed the Minera Chambara shareholders’ agreement with Votorantim for the exploration of a large area of interest in northern Peru measuring approximately 200 by 85 kilometers. In 2015 Milpo became the project manager funding and conducting all exploration on the project. Votorantim originally contributed 52 mineral concessions within the area of interest totaling 52,000 hectares to Minera Chambara for a 15% interest in Minera Chambara. We contributed 9,600 hectares of mineral claims and certain exploration data in our possession for an 85% interest in Minera Chambara. Existing and future acquired properties subject to the terms of the shareholders’ agreement will be controlled by Minera Chambara. In 2013 and 2016, Minera Chambara dropped selected concessions, resulting in Minera Chambara now holding 28 concessions totaling 22,000 hectares of valid concessions. As of December 31, 2016, Minera Chambara’s only assets are the properties and Minera Chambara has no debt. Milpo may increase its shareholding interest to 49% through cumulative spending of $6,250,000, and may further increase its interest to 70% by funding a feasibility study and providing for construction financing for Solitario's interest. If Milpo provides such construction financing, we would repay that financing, including interest, from 80% of Solitario's portion of the project cash flow.
The project is currently on care and maintenance. No field work is proposed for 2017, but Milpo is responsible for maintaining the property in good standing and making all concession payments to the Peruvian government.
Newmont Alliance and the La Promesa Project (Peru)
On January 18, 2005, we signed a Strategic Alliance Agreement (the "Alliance Agreement") with Newmont Overseas Exploration Limited ("Newmont") to explore for gold in South America (the "Strategic Alliance"). Concurrent with the signing of the Alliance Agreement, Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada made an equity investment in Solitario, a portion of which Solitario spent on exploration on Strategic Alliance areas covered by the Alliance Agreement. Under the terms of the Alliance Agreement, we granted Newmont a 2% NSR on properties included in the Strategic Alliance areas including the La Promesa project. If we meet certain minimum exploration expenditures on the project, Newmont will have the right to joint venture it and earn up to a 75% interest by taking the project through feasibility and financing Solitario's retained 25% interest into production.
The La Promesa property, acquired in 2008, consists of three concessions totaling 2,600 hectares. Our only holding costs for the mineral rights are annual payments of three dollars or nine dollars per hectare, depending on the age of the claims, to the Peruvian government. Total holding costs in 2017 will be approximately $8,000. During 2017 we intend to continue to pursue an agreement with the local community to conduct surface exploration.
At least five high-grade polymetallic veins have been identified and sampled at surface. Two of the veins, about 300 meters apart, have been traced for at least 400 meters along strike. There appears to be a systematic trend towards greater vein thickness with depth, as the widest observed vein in outcrop occurs at the lowest elevation sampled to date. Channel sampling along 300 meters of strike length from the best exposed vein yielded the following high-grade results:
Royalty Properties
Yanacocha Royalty Property (Peru)
The Yanacocha royalty property consists of 69 concessions totaling approximately 61,000 hectares in northern Peru, 25 kilometers north of the city of Cajamarca. The property position consists of a rectangular-shaped contiguous block of concessions nearly 50 kilometers long in an east-west direction and 25 kilometers wide in a north-south direction. The southern boundary of the royalty property abuts Newmont Mining Corporation's Minera Yanacocha mining operation, a large gold mine currently in operation. We held 100% interest in the concessions until April 2000, at which time we signed an agreement with Newmont Peru, Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation (both companies referred to as "Newmont Peru"), whereby we sold our Yanacocha Property to Newmont Peru for $6,000,000 and retained a sliding scale net smelter return royalty ("NSR-Royalty") that varied from two to five percent, depending on the price of gold.
In January 2005 we signed an Amended and Restated Royalty Grant with affiliates of Newmont Peru to modify the NSR-Royalty schedule. The modified royalty structure is classified into several categories, depending on the type of process used to recover each metal, gold silver and copper prices, as well as any government royalty burden imposed by Peru on the project ores. Assuming the current maximum royalty due the government of Peru and gold prices above $500 per ounce, our gold royalty ranges from 1% to 2¾%, our silver royalty would be 2% and our copper royalty would be 1%. No resources or reserves have been reported by Newmont, nor has any mining been conducted on the property.
Pedra Branca Platinum-Palladium Metals Project (Brazil)
During 2015 we converted our operating interest in the Pedra Branca project to a 1% NSR interest. The Pedra Branca platinum-palladium (“PGM”) project consisted of 57 exploration concessions totaling approximately 70,000 hectares in Ceará State, Brazil. The property is now owned by Garrison Capital Partners Limited, a Dubai, UAE company, which controls all activities related to the Pedra Branca project.
Montana royalty property (United States)
In May 2016 we acquired a 1.5% net smelter royalty on non-producing exploration properties covering 16,548 acres in Montana previously owned by Atna Resources, Ltd. for $40,000.
Norcan and Aconchi royalty properties (Mexico)
In June 2010 we acquired the 35,991 hectare Norcan Copper property located north of the Cananea mine, in the State of Sonora, Mexico. Geochemical and biogeochemical surveys in this area exhibit locally anomalous copper values. We acquired the 8,200 hectare Aconchi property in northern Sonora, Mexico in October 2010. It is an early-stage property that displays copper and other trace element anomalies in soils. Upon the closure of our Mexico exploration office during 2016, we retained a 1% net smelter royalty on both the Norcan and Aconchi exploration projects. We had previously written down both exploration projects and have no capitalized costs related to the Norcan or Aconchi royalties as of December 31, 2016.
Discontinued Projects
During 2016, we closed our exploration office in Mexico. We retained a 1% royalty on both our Norcan and Aconchi exploration projects in Mexico. Solitario recorded a mineral property write-down of $10,000 related to the Norcan and Aconchi properties during 2016. During 2016, Solitario abandoned its interest in its Canta Colorado property in Peru and recorded a mineral property write-down expense of $3,000 related to Canta Colorado.
During 2015, Solitario converted its operating interest in Pedra Branca Mineracao, Ltd (“PBM”), which was the owner of the Pedra Branca project in Brazil, to a 1% net smelter royalty in the Pedra Branca project, upon the termination of its interest in PBM. Solitario had no remaining asset value related to its investment in PBM as it had accounted for its interest in PBM under the equity method of accounting and had recognizing a reduction of its remaining interest in PBM to zero prior to the year ended December 31, 2015. Solitario recorded no mineral property write-down expense during 2015.
GLOSSARY OF MINING TERMS
“Assay” means to test minerals by chemical or other methods for the purpose of determining the amount of valuable metals contained.
“Breccia” means rock consisting of fragments, more or less angular, in a matrix of finer-grained material or of cementing material.
“Claim” or “Concession” means a mining interest giving its holder the right to prospect, explore for and exploit minerals within a defined area.
“Clastic” means pertaining to rock or rocks composed of fragments or particles of older rocks or previously existing solid matter; fragmental.
“Deposit” means an informal term for an accumulation of mineral ores.
“Development” means work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual ore extraction possible.
“Dolomite” means calcium magnesium carbonate, CaMg (CO3)2, occurring in crystals and in masses.
“Facies” means the appearance and characteristics of a sedimentary deposit, especially as they reflect the conditions and environment of deposition and serve to distinguish the deposit from contiguous deposits.
“Fault” means a fracture in rock along which there has been displacement of the two sides parallel to the fracture.
“gpt” means grams per tonne.
“Karst” means a landscape that is characterized by the features of solution weathering and erosion in the subsurface. These features include caves, sinkholes, disappearing streams, subsurface drainage and deeply incised narrow canyons.
“Manto deposits” means replacement ore bodies that are strata bound, irregular to rod shaped ore occurrences usually horizontal or near horizontal in attitude.
“Mineralization” means the concentration of metals within a body of rock.
“NSR” means net smelter return royalty.
“opt” or “oz/ton” means ounces per ton.
“Ore” means material containing minerals that can be economically extracted.
“Ounce” means a troy ounce.
“Reserves” or “Ore Reserves” means that part of a mineral deposit, which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
“Sampling” means selecting a fractional, but representative, part of a mineral deposit for analysis.
“Sediment” means solid material settled from suspension in a liquid.
“Sphalerite” means a very common mineral, zinc sulfide, usually containing some iron and a little cadmium, occurring in yellow, brown, or black crystals or cleavable masses with resinous luster and it is the principal ore of zinc.
“Stratigraphy” means the arrangement of rock strata, especially as to the geographic, chronologic order of sequence (age), classification, characteristics and formation.
“Strike” when used as a noun, means the direction, course or bearing of a vein or rock formation measured on a level surface and, when used as a verb, means to take such direction, course or bearing.
“Sulfide” means a compound of sulfur and some other element.
“Ton” means a short ton (2,000 pounds).
“Tonne” means a metric ton that contains 2,204.6 pounds or 1,000 kilograms.
“Vein” means a fissure, fault or crack in a rock filled by minerals that have traveled upwards from some deep source.
Item 3.