Item 2. Properties
Joint Ventures, Royalty and the Strategic Alliance Properties
Bongara Zinc Project (Peru)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Bongara Property)
The Bongara project consists of 6 concessions comprising 4,100 hectares of mineral rights granted to or under option to Minera Bongara S.A., a subsidiary of ours incorporated in Peru. The property is located in the Department of Amazonas, northern Peru. On August 15, 2006 Solitario signed a Letter Agreement with Votorantim Metais Cajamarquilla, S.A., a wholly owned subsidiary of Votorantim Metais (both companies referred to as "Votorantim"), on Solitario's 100%-owned Bongara zinc project. On March 24, 2007, Solitario signed a definitive agreement, the Framework Agreement for the Exploration and Potential Development of Mining Properties, (the "Framework Agreement") pursuant to, and replacing, the previously signed Bongara Letter Agreement with Votorantim Metais ("Votorantim"). Solitario's and Votorantim's property interests will be held through the ownership of shares in a joint operating company that holds a 100% interest in the mineral rights and other project assets. Solitario currently owns 100% of the shares in this company (Minera Bongara S.A.).
Votorantim can earn up to a 70% shareholding interest in the joint operating company by funding an initial $1.0 million exploration program (completed), by completing future annual exploration and development expenditures, by making a cash payment of $100,000 on August 15, 2007 (completed) and further payments to Solitario of $200,000 on all subsequent anniversaries until a production decision is made or the agreement is terminated. The option to earn the 70% interest can be exercised by Votorantim any time after the first year commitment by committing to place the project into production based upon a feasibility study. Additionally, Votorantim, in its sole discretion, may elect to terminate the option to earn the 70% interest at any time after the first year commitment. The agreement calls for Votorantim to have minimum annual exploration and development expenditures of $1.5 million in each of years two and three, and $2.5 million in all subsequent years until a minimum of $18.0 million has been expended by Votorantim. Votorantim will act as project operator. Once Votorantim has fully funded its $18.0 million work commitment and committed to place the project into production based upon a feasibility study, it has further agreed to finance Solitario's 30% participating interest through production. Solitario will repay the loan facility through 50% of Solitario's cash flow distributions from the joint operating company.
According to Peruvian law, concessions may be held indefinitely, subject only to payment of annual fees to the government. Each year a payment of $3.00 per hectare must be made by the last day of June to keep the claims in good standing. Because some of the Bongara concessions are more than 10 years old beginning in 2005, there is a $6.00 surcharge per hectare, if less than $100 per hectare is invested in exploration and development of the claim. Land payments made on 100% owned claims not subject to existing joint venture agreements in 2007 and 2006 were $46,000 and $17,000, respectively. Peru also imposes a sliding scale net smelter return royalty (NSR) on all precious and base metal production. This NSR assesses a tax of 1% on all gross proceeds from production up to $60,000,000, a 2% NSR on proceeds between $60,000,000 and $120,000,000 and a 3% NSR on proceeds in excess of $120,000,000.
We have a surface rights agreement with the local community, which controls the surface of the primary area of interest of our Bongara joint venture. This agreement provides for an annual payment of $5,000 in return for the right to perform exploration work including road building and drilling. From time to time we enter into surface rights agreements with individual landowners or communities to provide access for exploration work. Generally, these are short term agreements.
An environmental permit is required for exploration projects in Peru that involve drilling or underground mining. The requisite environmental and archeological studies have been completed and the permit has been granted for future exploration activities subject to the periodic approval of amendments for newly planned work.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The Bongara property is accessed by the paved Carretera Marginal road, which provides access from the coastal city of Chiclayo. The area of the majority of past drilling and the most prospective mineralization, Florida Canyon, is currently inaccessible by road, the work to date having been done by either foot or helicopter access. The nearest town is Pedro Ruiz located 15 kilometers southeast of the property and the Carretera Marginal is situated approximately eight kilometers south of the deposit. Votorantim maintains the project field office in Pedro Ruiz. The climate is tropical and the terrain is mountainous and jungle covered. Seasonal rains hamper exploration work for four to five months of the year by limiting access. Several small villages are located within five kilometers of the drilling area.
<PAGE>
3. History
We discovered the Florida Canyon mineralized zone of the Bongara Project in 1996. Subsequently, we optioned the property in December 1996 to Cominco. Cominco withdrew from the joint venture in February 2001. We maintained the most important claims from 2001 to 2006, until the Votorantim Letter Agreement was signed. All of the significant work on the property has been conducted by Cominco, and more recently by Votorantim, and is described below in section 5, Prior Exploration.
4. Geological Setting
The geology of the Bongara area is relatively simple consisting of a sequence of Jurassic and Triassic clastic and carbonate rocks which are gently deformed. The Mississippi Valley type mineralization occurs in the carbonate facies of the Chambara (rock) Formation. This sedimentary sequence is part of what is referred to as the Pucura Group that hosts mineral deposit throughout Peru.
5. Prior Exploration
We conducted a regional stream sediment survey and reconnaissance geological surveys leading to the discovery of the Florida Canyon area in 1996. The discovered outcropping mineralization is located in two deeply incised canyons within the limestone stratigraphy.
Subsequent to our initial work, Cominco conducted extensive mapping, soil and rock sampling, stream sediment surveys and drilling. This work was designed to determine the extent and grade of the zinc-lead mineralization and the controls of deposition. All work performed by us, Cominco or Votorantim was done by direct employees of the respective companies with the exception of the drilling which was performed by Bradley Drilling Co.
6. Mineralization
Mineralization occurs as massive to semi-massive replacements of sphalerite and galena localized by specific sedimentary facies within the limestone stratigraphy and by structural feeders and karst breccias. A total of eleven preferred beds for replacement mineralization have been located within the middle unit of the Chambara Formation. Mineralization is associated with the conversion of limestone to dolomite, which creates porosity and permeability within the rock formations, promoting the passage of mineralizing fluids through the rock formations forming stratigraphically controlled manto deposits. Drilling on stratigraphic targets has shown that certain coarser bioclastic or pseudo-breccia facies of the stratigraphy are the best hosts for mineralization.
Karst features are localized along faults and locally produce "breakout zones" where mineralization may extend vertically across thick stratigraphic intervals along the faults where collapse breccias have been replaced by ore minerals. Mineralized karst structures are up to fifty meters in width. The stratigraphically controlled mineralization is typically one to several meters in thickness but locally attains thicknesses of eight to ten meters. Generally the stratigraphic mineralization, while thinner, is of higher grade and laterally more extensive. Evidence for these breakout zones are provided by the following drill holes from various locations on the property:
Breakout
Zone Name
Drill Hole
Number
Intercepts
(meters)
Zinc
%
Lead
%
Zinc+Lead
%
Sam
GC-17*
FC-23*
58.8
81.5
12.0
4.8
2.8
0.8
14.8
5.6
Karen
A-1*
36.2
12.8
2.7
15.5
North Zone
V-21
92.0
5.5
1.7
7.2
The middle unit of the Chambara formation, where mineralized, is commonly dolomitized within the zone of highest sedimentary-induced permeability. Dolomitization reaches stratigraphic thicknesses in excess of 100 meters locally. This alteration is thought to be related to the mineralizing event in some cases and is an important exploration tool. Continuity of the mineralization is thought to be demonstrable in areas of highest drilling density by correlation of mineralization within characteristic sedimentary facies typical of specific stratigraphic intervals.
7. Drilling
A total of 80 diamond drill holes (HQ and NQ size) were completed by Cominco from 1997-2000 and 58 holes by Votorantim in 2006 and 2007 at the Florida Canyon deposit. These holes vary in depth up to 610 meters. The mineralized area that has been drilled measures approximately two by two kilometers. Votorantim's drilling has been entirely infill drilling designed to better define mineralization and demonstrate continuity over an area measuring 1,000 by 600 meters. This infill drilling program has served to better define the quality and spatial distribution of mineralization, but additional infill drilling will be required to establish reserves. All drilling was done by a LF-70 core-drilling rig.
<PAGE>
8. Sampling and Analysis
Rock samples taken were composited from mineralization or alteration within an outcrop. The samples were pulverized and analyzed by Inductively Coupled Plasma (ICP) for a variety of elements including zinc and lead. Soil samples were screened to - minus 80 mesh prior to pulverization and analysis by ICP.
Core samples were transported from the drill by helicopter in sealed boxes to the processing facility in Pedro Ruiz where they were split by a diamond saw. Half of the core was taken of intervals selected according to geologic criteria under the supervision of the geologist in charge and shipped in sealed bags by land. Cominco used SGS Laboratories and Votorantim used ALS-Chemex, both in Lima, Peru, where all samples were analyzed by ICP. Any samples that contained greater than 1% zinc were then analyzed by wet chemistry assay for zinc and lead to provide a more accurate analysis of grade.
The following is a summary of samples taken and analyzed for which results have been received according to type within the Florida Canyon area.
Sample Type
Core
Rocks
Stream Sediments
Soils
Number of Samples
2,967
3,326
7,733
It was found that ICP systematically underestimated the true grade in high-grade samples in excess of 1% zinc. This systematic error varies according to grade with the higher samples having the largest error. The average error of all reported core results for ICP was approximately 10% below the true grade. All grades reported to the public have been based on assay rather than geochemical techniques in order to represent the most accurate data possible.
9. Security of Samples
Since August 2006, Votorantim has been in control of all field activities on the project and is responsible for the security of samples. Votorantim has indicated to us that there have been no breaches in the security of the samples. We have reviewed Votorantim's sampling procedures and believe that adequate procedures are in place to ensure the future security and integrity of samples. No breaches of security of samples are known to have occurred prior to Votorantim's work on the project.
10. Feasibility Studies
Votorantim is currently working on scoping-level studies to provide order-of-magnitude estimates of deposit size and grade, sizing of appropriate scale of operations, infrastructure and operating cost estimates. Included within these studies is review of four road access options from the paved Carretera Marginal road to the Florida Canyon deposit.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
There are no reported mineral reserves or resources.
11. Mining Operations
No mining operations have occurred on the project.
12. Planned Exploration
Votorantim is currently planning to conduct a core drilling program to better define mineralized areas in 2008. The scope of the drilling program is completely at Votorantim's discretion.
Pedra Branca Platinum Group Metals Project (Brazil)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Pedra Branca Property)
We are exploring the Pedra Branca property for platinum and palladium mineralization (platinum group metals, or "PGM"). At December 31, 2007, the Pedra Branca project consisted of 124 exploration concessions totaling approximately 178,514 hectares in Ceará State, Brazil. We have applied to the National Department of Mineral Production ("DNPM") to convert five exploration concessions to mining concessions. These applications are under review by the DNPM. Pedra Branca do Mineração S.A. ("PBM"), an 85%-owned subsidiary of ours incorporated in Brazil, holds 100%-interest in all concessions. Eldorado Gold Corporation is entitled to a 2% NSR royalty on 10 of the concessions totaling 10,000 hectares.
On January 28, 2003, we entered into a Letter Agreement with Anglo Platinum Ltd. ("Anglo Platinum") whereby Anglo Platinum could earn various incremental interests, in PBM up to a 65% interest, by making annually increasing exploration expenditures totaling $7.0 million, completing a bankable feasibility study, or spending an additional $10 million on exploration and development, whichever occurs first, and arranging financing to put the project into commercial production. The Letter Agreement was amended four times between July 2004 and April 2006, generally to extend various work commitment deadlines mandated in the Letter Agreement. On July 14, 2006, we signed the Pedra Branca Framework Agreement with Anglo Platinum that specified actions we and Anglo Platinum would take to establish and govern PBM, the corporate entity that now holds 100% title to all the assets of the Pedra Branca project, and the mechanics for Anglo Platinum's continued funding of Pedra Branca exploration.
<PAGE>
On April 24, 2007, we signed the definitive agreement, the Shareholders Agreement, relating to the Pedra Branca Project in Brazil, (the "Shareholders Agreement") pursuant to the previously signed Pedra Branca Letter Agreement with Anglo Platinum for the exploration and development of the Pedra Branca Project. The Shareholders Agreement provides for Solitario's and Anglo Platinum's property interests to be held through the ownership of shares in a joint operating company, PBM, that holds a 100% interest in the mineral rights and other project assets. As part of the agreement, Anglo Platinum earned a 15% interest in PBM as of September 30, 2007, as a result of spending a total of $2.25 million on exploration at Pedra Branca. Additionally, the Shareholders Agreement provides that Anglo Platinum may incrementally earn up to a 51% interest in PBM by spending a total of $7 million on exploration ($4.75 million in addition to the $2.25 million spent as of September 30, 2007) at Pedra Branca by June 30, 2010. However, Anglo Platinum is not required to fund any future exploration expenditures. Anglo Platinum can earn an additional 9% interest in PBM (for a total of 60%) by completing either (i) a bankable feasibility study or (ii) spending an additional $10.0 million on exploration or development. Anglo Platinum can also earn an additional 5% interest in PBM (for a total of 65%) by arranging for 100% financing to put the project into commercial production.
We also entered into a Services Agreement with Anglo Platinum whereby Solitario (and/or our subsidiaries) would act as an independent contractor directing the exploration and administrative activities for PBM and its shareholders. Solitario receives a 5% management fee based upon total expenditures
We added significantly to our Pedra Branca land holdings in 2007. Seventy-seven (77) new concessions were filed totaling 133,149 hectares. Land payments for 2008 are projected to be approximately $186,000 including annual claim maintenance payments and smaller surface rights payments to local landowners. This amount may change due to the reduction or addition of properties, or a change in the currency exchange rate.
The mineral interests currently held by us, through PBM, are subject to the mining regulations of Brazil. These rights are granted by the Brazilian government and administered by the National Department of Mineral Production ("DNPM"). To initially obtain mineral concessions from the DNPM, we must provide the DNPM with work plans and pay an initial fee of approximately $258 depending upon the Brazil-U.S. exchange rate. To keep the concessions in good standing, we must continue to pay regular annual fee of $0.90 per hectare for the first three years and approximately $1.34 per hectare after the first three years and provide the DNPM with annual progress reports. We are subject to yearly inspections by the DNPM for compliance with reported plans and environmental regulations.
Exploration concessions are granted by the DNPM for a maximum period of three years with the right of the applicant to apply for an extension which may be granted for up to an additional three years. Upon expiration of the exploration concession the concessionaire must apply for conversion of the claim to a mining concession or abandon the property. We have applied for the conversion of five claims to mining concessions. Unlike exploration concessions, mining concessions do not expire but do have requirements for advancing feasibility and development work toward production. Approval of the conversion is at the discretion of the DNPM and we can give no assurance that the conversion of the concessions will be granted.
Prior to mining on the claims we must reach an agreement with the surface rights owners of the affected land. Additionally, we must pay a royalty to governmental agencies based on the materials produced. This amount is 0.2% of the sales for precious metals excluding gold, which is subject to a 3% royalty.
We currently hold no surface rights to the property but have entered into short-term agreements with the surface rights owners to compensate for exploration activities.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
Access to the project is by paved road from the state capital of Fortaleza in Ceará State and by local farm roads. Local access is constructed where necessary. The largest towns in the immediate vicinity of the project are Pedra Branca and Boa Viagem. A field camp is located at the small community of Capitao Mor. The climate is warm and dry for eight months of the year with a warm wet season prevailing for the remaining four months. Year-round operation can be conducted. The topography is rolling to flat and vegetation is sparse to heavy brush. The elevation ranges from 500 to 800 meters.
3. History
In the 1980's Rio Tinto Ltd., ("Rio Tinto") and Gencore, Ltd. ("Gencore") performed exploration work on part of the project now operated by us. Both companies did surface exploration and drilling, including 42 diamond drill holes by Rio Tinto and 8 diamond drill holes by Gencore on the former Eldorado lease. In October 2000, we completed a plan of arrangement (the "Plan of Arrangement") whereby we acquired Altoro Gold Corp. ("Altoro"). In 1999, Altoro had acquired concessions from the government over some of the property previously held by Rio Tinto. We acquired additional concessions in 2000 and 2001, through our subsidiary Altoro Mineração, Ltda. to cover extensions of the mineralized trend.
Altoro, prior to the Plan of Arrangement with us, conducted surface work, drilled 18 diamond drill holes and entered into a Joint Venture agreement with Rockwell Ventures, Inc. ("Rockwell") of Vancouver, British Columbia. Rockwell conducted further surface exploration and drilled an additional 31 holes. Rockwell terminated its agreement with us in June 2001. From July 2001 until January of 2003, we conducted geochemical sampling,
<PAGE>
geophysical surveys and drilled 54 diamond drill holes. From January 2003 to date, Anglo Platinum funded three drilling programs that focused on better defining the Esbarro and Curiu deposits, further testing the Cedro, Trapia and Santo Amaro prospects, and initial drill testing of 25 other target areas.
4. Geological Setting
The project lies within an Archean-aged block in the Brazilian shield, which is characterized by amphibolite grade metamorphic rocks of various compositions. The most common rock types in the area are unmineralized intermediate to felsic composition gneisses and granitic intrusive phases.
The PGM mineralization occurs in specific stratigraphic intervals within a segmented mafic-ultramafic layered complex. The mineralized intervals comprise concordant layers, originally of composition varying from peridotite to dunite. These layers contain chromite and/or minor sulfides of iron, copper and/or nickel. The primary silicate ultramafic minerals in the rocks have been variably converted to amphibole, serpentine or talc. A number of separate bodies of the ultramafic phases of the complex have been discovered, some of which contain the PGM-bearing stratigraphic intervals. All of the rocks have been folded and faulted to differing degrees during dynamic metamorphism in the area.
5. Prior Exploration
Surface exploration conducted, initially by Altoro, and subsequently by Rockwell and then us, consists of:
Reconnaissance geologic mapping and rock sampling
Systematic line cutting, soil sampling and geologic mapping of lines
Ground magnetics and induced polarization ("IP") geophysical surveys
Stream sediment and panned-concentrate geochemistry
Diamond drilling of 25 prospect areas
All of the above work has been conducted directly by us, our predecessor or its partners with the exception of diamond drilling which was performed by Boart-Longyear Geoserv do Brasil and Major Drilling. Ground magnetometry was conducted primarily using a Scintrex Portable EnviMag hand-held magnetometer, with a base station for recording diurnal corrections. An internationally recognized third-party geophysical contractor conducted the IP survey. An independent geophysical consultant has been utilized to further interpret the magnetic and IP data.
Our surface work has generally been focused to identify outcroppings of ultramafic rocks, detect anomalous concentrations of PGM in soils or rocks and determine if magnetic minerals are present in bedrock. Soil and rock surveying conducted to date shows that both methods reliably reflect the location of outcropping and subcropping PGM mineralization. Twenty areas with significant soil and/or rock anomalies have been located within the area covered by line gridding. Detailed geologic mapping has been conducted over the majority of these locations to determine the source of anomalous PGM values.
The targeted ultramafic rocks are generally more magnetic than the surrounding rocks and magnetometry has been shown to be effective at locating these bodies, though magnetometry and surface geochemical sampling does not determine the PGM content of an ultramafic body with certainty. Work conducted in 2007 indicates that IP is not consistently effective in detecting buried ultramafic bodies and elevated concentrations of sulfide minerals within bedrock.
We believe the data obtained from the above exploration activities to be reliable, however the nature of exploration mineral properties and analysis of geological information is subjective and data and conclusions are subject to uncertainty including invalid data as a result of many reasons, including sample contamination, analysis variation, extrapolation, undetected instrumentation malfunctions and the use of geologic and economic assumptions.
6. Mineralization
Approximately 25 prospects have been located within the project area. All of these identified prospects display either anomalous PGM values in soils or rocks and/or magnetic signatures indicating the presence of magnetic minerals. Drilling has intersected significant mineralization on six of the prospects.
The stratigraphic layering of an ultramafic body controls the PGM content of the ultramafic rocks. In many cases the PGM grade is associated with the mineral chromite. In other areas the PGM is more closely related with minor sulfide concentration. However, the presence of either chromite or sulfides within ultramafic rocks does not assure elevated PGM grade.
Within PGM-enriched ultramafics, grade and thickness can vary considerably. Widths encountered vary from less than a meter to tens of meters in interpreted true thickness. In no location has drilling been conducted on spacing of sufficient density to assure the continuity necessary to define reserves. For this reason no representation can be made as to the probability of defining reserves.
<PAGE>
7. Drilling
A total of 243 holes totaling 18,363 meters of core drilling have been completed on the project to date. Of this, 3,217 meters were drilled by Rio Tinto and Gencore for which the core itself is not available, nor are the procedures documented under which the holes were completed.
In the case of holes drilled by Altoro, Rockwell and us, the following procedures were followed. Drill holes were either of NQ (1 and 7/8 inch) or HQ (2 and 1/2 inch) diameter and were boxed in the field under the supervision of the geologist in charge. With the exception of weathered material near surface, at least 90% of the core had recoveries exceeding 90%. The core was transported to the field camp in sealed core boxes where processing took place under the supervision of the geologist in charge.
Based on drill results to date we believe the prospects Esbarro, Cedro, Curiu, Trapia I, Trapia West and Santo Amaro exhibit results warranting further definition drilling of high priority. We are planning on drilling additional targets in future programs.
The Esbarro prospect, with 107 holes, has the largest database of information of the drilled prospects. Drilling was conducted on approximately 50-meter spaced centers. The Curiu prospect is the second most detailed prospect drilled with 21 holes completed to date. Drilling was conducted on approximately 25-meter spaced centers. Fifteen drill holes have been completed at Santa Amaro, 9 at Trapia I, 13 at Trapia West and 31 on the Cedro prospects. Drill spacing on these latter four prospects range from 50 to 200 meters. Although significant mineralized material was encountered in many of the drill holes within these six deposits, we have not undertaken a formal estimate of reserves or resources as we believe additional work is required to make such an estimate.
The inability to resample the drilling of the Rio Tinto core holes has reduced the confidence which would normally be attributed to these results. However, one twin hole drilled next to a Rio Tinto hole at Esbarro showed excellent reproducibility of results. During the current exploration phase of the program, the Rio Tinto and Gencore results are accepted as accurately representing the sampled interval. However, in order to establish a resource or reserve, additional twin holes and/or infill holes may be necessary to provide a degree of confidence commensurate with assignment to these categories.
8. Sampling and Analysis
Rock sampling at Pedra Branca generally employed the use of composite surface samples, which are representative aggregates of available material from an outcrop or sub-cropping body collected on the surface. Selective sampling was occasionally used to identify the geochemical character of a rock not representative of an outcrop. This technique represents a small percentage of the total samples collected. Soil samples were collected of soil horizons thought to be derived from the decomposition of underlying bedrock. Soils were screened to -80 mesh prior to pulverization. Stream sediment geochemistry has been applied to both active wet stream beds and dry stream beds. Panned concentrate sampling of both dry and wet stream beds has been effectively utilized on a regional basis.
No known significant factors relating to sampling, drilling or recovery exist that are thought to have an impact on interpreted results. Core recovery is rarely less than 90%, but such cases are sufficiently uncommon as to not have an adverse effect on the interpretation of results.
Assays results for the Rio Tinto and Gencore core samples cannot be checked, as the core is not available for resampling. For all other samples we have collected, assaying for PGM was done by Bondar Clegg Laboratories of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada or its successor, ALS Chemex Laboratories. Check assays were performed by Altoro, Rockwell Ventures and us. All of our programs have been, and will continue to be conducted under a check assay program in progress with samples sent to a third party laboratory (Lakefield Laboratories or SGS Laboratories).
9. Security of Samples
Core samples are sawed on site into two halves, one submitted to the laboratory and one kept in a secure location on site. The half-core, selected according to geologic criteria or regularly spaced intervals, is sent by land or air to the sample preparation laboratory in Goiania, Brazil operated by ALS-Chemex Laboratories. The samples are sealed on site under the supervision of the geologist in charge and the laboratory is instructed to report any breaks in the seal to the Project Manager. No such security breaches have been noted since Solitario has taken over operation of the project.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
There are no reported reserves.
11. Mining Operations
There are no current mining operations associated with this project.
12. Planned Exploration
In late-February 2008, Anglo Platinum elected to fund an additional $1.5 million in exploration expenditures. The 2008 program emphasizes regional surface work to develop new drill targets during the first eight months, and also budgets for 2,000 meters (approximately 18-20 holes) of drilling in the second half of the year to test currently identified high-priority targets.
<PAGE>
Pachuca Real Silver-Gold Property (Mexico)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Pachuca-Real Property)
The Pachuca-Real property consists of approximately 47,300 hectares of mineral rights encompassing about 30% of the historic Pachuca-Real del Monte silver-gold mining district of central Mexico, but mainly areas situated to the north and northwest of the historic district, termed the North District. Solitario owns 100% of the property, except for the 13,600-hectare El Cura claim, that is subject to an Option to Purchase agreement with a private Mexican party. The option requires payments of $500,000 over four years for a 100% interest in the claim. Solitario may terminate its option at anytime without any further costs.
On September 25, 2006 we signed a definitive venture agreement (the "Venture Agreement") with Newmont de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. ("Newmont"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation. The Venture Agreement calls for a firm work commitment by Newmont of $2.0 million over the next 18 months. Work commitments over the first 4.5 years total $12.0 million.
Exploration Expenditures and Due Dates
Amount
Aggregate Amount
18 months from signing - firm commitment
$2,000,000
$2,000,000
30 months from signing - optional commitment
$2,300,000
$4,300,000
42 months from signing - optional commitment
$3,500,000
$7,800,000
54 months from signing - optional commitment
$4,200,000
$12,000,000
Newmont's initial firm work commitment includes a minimum of 7,500 meters of drilling, however, Newmont will have 24 months to complete such drilling and any costs beyond the initial 18 month period to complete that drilling, if necessary, will be in addition to the $2.0 million work commitment above. Upon the completion of $12.0 million in expenditures, Newmont will have earned a 51% interest in the project. Newmont will have the right to earn an additional 14% (total 65%) by completing a positive feasibility study for the project. After Newmont has spent $12.0 million and has elected to complete a feasibility study, Newmont is required to spend a minimum of $5.0 million annually until such time as the positive feasibility study is completed. Newmont has the right to terminate the agreement at any time following its firm initial work commitment. Upon completion of the feasibility study, we will have the option to self-finance our 35%-participating interest in the project, or to have Newmont fund our portion of construction costs at Libor plus 3.5%. Such post-feasibility funding plus interest shall be paid from 80% of Solitario's distribution of future earnings or dividends from the venture. If Solitario elects to have Newmont fund all its venture costs after feasibility, then Solitario's participating interest will be immediately reduced to 30% and Newmont's interest will be 70%.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The project is located about 80 kilometers north of Mexico City near the city of Pachuca. Access is excellent throughout much of the project area with moderately maintained gravel roads. The city of Pachuca, with excellent modern infrastructure, lies in the southern portion of the property. The project topography ranges in elevation from 2,100 to 3,000 meters. The climate ranges from semi-arid in the lower elevations, which tend to be sparsely vegetated; to temperate in the higher elevations, that tend to be well-forested.
3. History
Pachuca has a long, nearly unbroken history of silver and gold production beginning somewhere around 1550 by the Spaniards, although it is generally thought that pre-Hispanic smelting of Pachuca ores occurred by the indigenous population inhabiting the area. Total silver production during this five and a half-century period is estimated at approximately 1.4 billion ounces and over seven million ounces of gold. Nearly 80% of its total production occurred during a 60-year period from 1900 to 1960. Mining in the old district ceased in 2004 due to the depletion of ore reserves. Our claim position, predominantly situated north of the historic district, was held by the Mexican government from 1947 to the early 1990's, whereupon the concessions were sold to a private Mexican company and held by that same company until early 2006, when the land became free to staking and we immediately applied, and were granted, title to the concessions.
4. Geological Setting
The geology of the Pachuca-Real project area is dominated by a thick sequence of Tertiary-aged volcanic and volcanic-related rock formations of dominantly andesitic composition. This thick pile of volcanic rocks is cut by a series of younger east-west trending and northwest-southeast trending quartz porphyry and dacite porphyry dikes. The volcanic rocks are generally only gently dipping on a regional scale, but locally display moderate dips of up to 40 degrees. In the old district, structures typically have a west-northwest to east-southeast trend, except in the Real del Monte area that has a north-south trending overprint. Basement rocks within the project area consist of Cretaceous-aged sedimentary rocks. Overlying the thick andesitic pile of volcanic rocks is another sequence of volcanic and volcanic-related rocks that are thin to moderately thick formations of primarily dacitic composition. These rocks are generally post-mineralization in age.
<PAGE>
5. Prior Exploration
The old Pachuca-Real del Monte mining district has been intensely explored and mined throughout its long history, but is not the area of our current exploration focus. We believe the area of greatest potential lies about 10 kilometers north of the main district. Exploration in this area (North District) during the past 60 years was restricted to mainly surface sampling with a very limited amount of drilling. We have compiled all the historical data that we were able to obtain and conducted a limited surface rock and soil sampling program in the first half of 2006, prior to Newmont becoming our joint venture partner. Newmont continued the surface sampling program and is also conducting detailed geologic mapping to define drill targets. Newmont completed a nine-hole, 3,368 meter core drilling program in mid-2007.
6. Mineralization
The old Pachuca-Real del Monte mining district is a classic vein district of nearly unparalleled size being 11 kilometers in an east-west direction and 7 kilometers in a north-south direction. Hundreds of generally near-vertical veins associated with fractures, faults and dikes occur throughout the district. The major veins have productive stopes in excess of a kilometer in length, 600 meters in vertical extent and 2-5 meters in average width. The veins are characterized by low sulfide and base metal content and very weak wallrock alteration. Historical average grades for the district are 500 g/t silver and 2.5 g/t gold.
In the North District, a major 15-kilometer long east-west fault system, the "Arevalo trend," localizes mineralization along fractures and dikes. The largest mines in the North District, the Arevalo mine near the town of El Chico and the Capula mine further west, partially exploited this large potential area of mineralization. Further north, a major series of northwest-southeast trending veins occupies an area over 12 kilometers long and 7 kilometers wide. The geology, alteration and style of mineralization in the North District are very similar to that of the historic district to the south.
7. Drilling
Prior to Newmont's 2007 drilling program, we do not have any authoritative data concerning past drilling in the North District. Newmont completed a nine-hole, 3,368 meter core drilling program in mid-2007. The first seven holes of this program tested various areas along the Arevalo trend in the southern part of the North District. Only anomalous mineralization was intersected in these holes. The last two holes intersected the following mineralization:
Drill Hole
From/To
Interval (m)
Au g/t
Ag g/t
PAC-08
176.7 - 177.0
0.3
0.31
89.0
210.4 - 212.95
2.55
0.17
37.0
266.4 - 267.3
0.90
2.03
754.0
275.9 - 276.2
0.3
0.43
79.0
PAC-09
129.3 - 129.9
0.6
0.19
144.0
196.9- 197.1
0.2
0.18
88.0
245.0 -245.5
0.5
0.75
468.0
300.4 - 301.4
1.0
0.09
63.8
323.3 - 323.8
0.5
0.26
163.0
380.3-- 380.6
0.3
0.32
109.0
Both holes were situated to test for "blind" veins beneath broad surface areas of high-level clay alteration. PAC-08 tested the San Juan Gallo vein system and PAC-9 tested the Escribano vein system.
8. Sampling and Analysis
To the end of 2007, a total of 2,460 geochemical samples from outcrops, dumps, old mine workings, and channel sampling have been collected on the project by Newmont. Prior to Newmont's work, we had collected rock chip samples and soil samples over select parts of the property.
9. Security of Samples
Since September 2006, Newmont has been in control of all field activities on the project and is responsible for the security of samples. Newmont has indicated to us that there have been no breaches in the security of the samples. We have reviewed Newmont's sampling procedures and believe that adequate procedures are in place to ensure the future security and integrity of samples.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
There are no reported reserves or resources.
11. Mining Operations
There are no current mining operations associated with this project.
12. Planned Exploration
Newmont is planning a minimum drilling program of 4,132 meters during the first half of 2008. The drilling will be widely space over at least 10 different target areas.
<PAGE>
Yanacocha Royalty Property (Peru)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Yanacocha Property)
The Yanacocha royalty property consists of 69 concessions totaling approximately 61,000 hectares in northern Peru 25 kilometers north of the city of Cajamarca. The property position consists of a rectangular-shaped contiguous block of concessions nearly 50 kilometers long in an east-west direction and 25 kilometers wide in a north-south direction. The southern boundary of the royalty property abuts Newmont Mining Corporation's Minera Yanacocha mining operation, a large gold mine currently in operation.
We held the concessions until April 2000, at which time we signed an agreement with Newmont Peru, Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corporation (both companies referred to as "Newmont"), whereby we sold our Yanacocha Property to Newmont for $6,000,000 and a sliding scale net smelter return royalty ("NSR-Royalty") that varied from two to five percent, depending on the price of gold. Newmont has not reported reserves on our Yanacocha property and we have not received any royalty income from Newmont.
In 2004, the Peruvian government implemented a national net smelter return royalty on gold that ranges from 1 to 3 percent, depending upon the total annual revenue from an operation. The top royalty rate applies to operations that produce in excess of US$120 million in annual revenues. Operations producing between US$60 million to US$120 million in annual revenues will have a 2 percent royalty, while a 1 percent royalty will be imposed on smaller operations of less than US$60 million in annual revenues.
In January 2005, we signed an Amended and Restated Royalty Grant with Minera Los Tapados S.A., a subsidiary of Newmont Peru Limited, Minera Yanacocha S.R.L., and Minera Chaupiloma Dos de Cajamarca, S.R.L. (affiliates of Newmont Peru, Ltd., collectively "Newmont Peru") to modify the NSR-Royalty schedule that recognizes the impact that Peru's national NSR-Royalty has on the exploration and development of new mining operations. The modified royalty structure is classified into several categories, depending on the type of process used to recover each metal, gold and copper prices, as well as any government royalty burden imposed by Peru on the project ores. The following summarizes the revised royalty structure:
Heap leach ores: For gold recovered by heap leach processing, the lesser of the sliding scale royalty set out below (the "Base Rate"), or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid in Peru is no more than 5.25% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 5.75% NSR
Base Rate
:
Gold price/oz.
NSR Royalty
Less than $320
Equal to or greater than $320 and less than $360
Equal to or greater than $360 and less than $400
Equal to or greater than $400
2%
3%
4%
5%
Dore end-product, non-flotation mill ores:
For gold recovered as dore in a non-flotation mill, the lesser of the Base Rate, or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid in Peru is no more than 4.5% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 5% NSR. Concentrate-producing, Cu-Au flotation mill ores: For gold and copper recovered in a concentrate producing, copper-gold flotation mill, the lesser of the Base Rate, or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid in Peru is no more than 3.5% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce and the copper price is greater than a PPI-indexed price of $1.50 per pound, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 4% NSR.
Silver: For silver, the lesser of 3% NSR, or a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any government royalty required to be paid Peru is no more than 4.5% NSR unless the gold price is greater than $500 per ounce, in which case then a royalty such that the royalty to Solitario plus any royalty due to the government is no more than 5% NSR.
As part of the NSR-Royalty modification, Newmont Peru, through its subsidiaries and/or affiliates, agreed to spend an aggregate of $4.0 million on Solitario's royalty property during the next eight years. Details of the newly established work commitment calls for the following expenditure schedule:
Period
Between 1/1/05 to 12/31/06
Between 1/1/07 to 12/31/08
Between 1/1/09 to 12/31/10
Between 1/1/11 to 12/31/12
Amount
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
$1,000,000
Cumulative
$1,000,000
$2,000,000
$3,000,000
$4,000,000
<PAGE>
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The property is easily accessed within an hour by paved and improved gravel roads from the city of Cajamarca, a regional hub for commerce and government administration. The terrain ranges from gently rolling to mountainous and varies in altitude from 2,800 to over 4,200 meters. A rainy season of approximately four months hampers exploration and access, but year-round work can be done. Vegetation in the area consists of alpine tundra type conditions.
3. History
The majority of concessions were acquired in 1993, with several concessions added in 1994 and 1995. We conducted regional surface exploration on the property in 1994 and 1995, which included a limited core-drilling program on two gold targets. At various times between 1995 and 1999, we joint ventured the property with three major mining companies, Barrick Gold Corporation, Rio Tinto, Ltd., and Placer Dome, Inc. All three companies conducted limited surface exploration programs and each elected to terminate its respective option to earn an interest in the property. Barrick Gold Corporation was the only company to conduct exploration drilling on the property. Newmont Peru purchased the property, subject to our NSR-Royalty, in April 2000.
4. Geological Setting
The property is situated within a northwest trending belt of Tertiary-aged volcanic and associated intrusive rocks that overlie and intrude Cretaceous-aged sedimentary rocks. The Cretaceous sediments are strongly deformed and consist of a lower sequence of sandstones, shales and quartzites and an upper sequence of carbonate rocks. Approximately half the property is underlain by Tertiary volcanic rocks consisting mainly of older andesitic to dacitic flows and tuffs. Locally these older volcanics are covered by a younger rhyo-dacitic tuff unit. Mineralization usually is hosted in the older volcanic unit.
5. Prior Exploration
We have independently, and through the efforts of our various joint venture partners, collected rock, soil and stream sediment samples on the surface. Geologic mapping has revealed 15 medium-to-large areas of hydrothermal alteration contained within both the volcanic and sedimentary rock units. Three gold targets were tested by us and our joint venture partner Barrick Gold prior to Newmont Peru purchasing the project in 2000. We conducted a large-scale helicopter-bourn geophysical program in 1994 that identified a number of magnetic anomalies. Newmont Peru conducted a more detailed and comprehensive helicopter-bourn geophysical program in 2003. During the past eight years Newmont Peru has conducted extensive surface sampling in the central portion of our NSR-Royalty property, from our southern BORDER=0 to the northern border, and has conducted a limited amount of drilling. The results of these Newmont Peru programs are made available to us for review on an annual basis as part of Newmont Peru's work commitment obligations.
6. Mineralization
Gold mineralization has been identified in at least 15 separate areas within altered volcanic and sedimentary rocks. Alteration generally consists of silicification (addition of quartz to the host rock) and argillization (destruction of feldspar minerals to clay). Rock chip sampling within these altered areas often contains anomalous values of gold, silver, mercury, arsenic or antimony. Alteration appears to be partially controlled by fault structures in the underlying rock formations or proximity to intrusive rocks.
7. Drilling
Twenty-one core-holes totaling approximately 2,700 meters were drilled on three gold targets prior to Newmont Peru purchasing the project in 2000. We drilled eight holes on the Los Negritos prospect and Barrick Gold drilled nine holes at the Shuito prospect and four holes at the Chalhuaquero prospect. Anomalous to low-grade gold, silver and base metal mineralization has been intersected in some of the drill holes conducted by us, Barrick Gold and Newmont. However, the tenor of mineralization and the lack of detailed drill hole spacing does not allow for an estimate of reserves.
8. Sampling and Analysis
Newmont is responsible for all sampling and analysis conducted on our royalty property and has been responsible for this activity for the past seven years. We review the results of Newmont's sampling and analysis activities on an annual basis.
9. Security of Samples
Newmont has been responsible for the security of samples for the past eight years.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
No resources or reserves have been delineated on the property.
11. Mining Operations
No mining is conducted on the property.
12. Planned Exploration
Newmont has not provided us with their planned exploration budget for 2008.
<PAGE>
Newmont Alliance (Peru)
On January 18, 2005, we signed a Strategic Alliance Agreement (the "Alliance Agreement") with Newmont Overseas Exploration Limited ("Newmont Exploration"), to explore for gold in South America (the "Strategic Alliance"). Prior to the definitive agreement, we had signed a Letter of Intent on November 17, 2004, with Newmont Exploration. Concurrent with the signing of the Alliance Agreement, Newmont Mining Corporation of Canada ("Newmont Canada") purchased 2.7 million shares of Solitario (at the time, an approximately 9.9% equity interest) for Cdn$4,590,000. As part of the Alliance Agreement we are committed to spend $3,773,000 over the four years from the date of the Alliance Agreement on gold exploration in regions ("Alliance Projects Areas") that are mutually agreed upon by Newmont Exploration and us. As of December 31, 2007, we have spent approximately $1,616,000 of this commitment. If we have not spent the $3,773,000, by January 18, 2009, Newmont may elect to extend the four-year expenditure period for such additional time necessary to enable Solitario to spend the full $3,773,000 on qualified exploration expenditures. Newmont may also elect to become the manager of the Alliance Agreement and direct and spend up to the $3,773,000 qualified exploration expenditures, with such expenditures to be funded by Solitario. If we acquire properties within Alliance Project Areas and meet certain minimum exploration expenditures, Newmont Exploration will have the right to joint venture acquired properties and earn up to a 75% interest by taking the project through feasibility and financing Solitario's retained 25% interest into production. Newmont Exploration may elect to earn a lesser interest or no interest at all, in which case it would retain a 2% net smelter return royalty. Newmont Exploration also has a right of first offer on any non-alliance Solitario property in South America, acquired after the signing of the Alliance Agreement, that we may elect to sell an interest in, or joint venture with a third party.
As of December 31, 2007 we have established property positions that fall within the currently defined Strategic Alliance area. These include the Cajatambo, Excelsior and Twin Lakes properties. The Twin Lakes property was staked in 2007, while the Cajatambo and Excelsior properties were staked in early 2008. All three properties are 100%-owned and are situated within the central Peru mineral belt that is proximal to the giant Cerro de Pasco silver-base metal district. During 2008, additional surface work is planned on all three properties to potentially define drill targets. Our current plans envision drilling the Cajatambo and Excelsior properties during mid-2008.
The Cajatambo property consists of three concessions totaling 3,000 hectares. The geology of the property consists of Tertiary volcanics that have been significantly altered by silicification, quartz-alunite and argillic alteration. The alteration system can be traced over an area eight kilometers long by two kilometers wide. It is considered to be a high-sulfidation epithermal gold system that is geologically similar in character to many of the large gold deposits situated throughout the Cordillera of Peru. Our work to date consists mainly of stream sediment sampling, rock chip channel sampling and reconnaissance geologic mapping. The best channel sample is 51 meters of 0.93 grams per tonne ("gpt") gold.
The Excelsior property consists of two concessions totaling 2,000 hectares. The geology of the property consists of sequence of metamorphosed Ordovician sedimentary formations. Mineralization consists of gold-bearing massive and stockwork quartz-iron replacements associated with an intrusive dike in phyllites. The quartz replacements can be traced intermittently over a length of eight kilometers and a width of up to one kilometer. Mineralization is also associated with regional faulting along the hinge of an anticline.
The Twin Lakes property consists of one concession totaling 1,000 hectares. During 2007, Solitario capitalized $3,000 in lease acquisition costs related to this concession. The geology of the property consists of Tertiary volcanics cut by a system of parallel quartz veins. Veins are up to two meters wide and can be traced along strike up to 1.2 kilometers. The veins are polymetallic in character, within a low-sulfidation environment.
Wholly-owned Exploration Properties
Mercurio Gold Property (Brazil)
http://www.solitarioresources.com/tapajos.html
1. Property Description and Location
The Mercurio Gold Property is located in Para State in Northern Brazil approximately 250 km south of the town of Itaituba. It consists of 173 claims totaling 8,550 hectares. An agreement dated March 14, 2005 with the underlying claim and surface rights holder provides for transfer of a 100% interest of the mineral estate to Solitario and payment by Solitario of approximately $350,000 over a period of 60 months. The owner retains a 1.5% net smelter return that is subject to purchase by Solitario for approximately $1,220,000. Estimated payments to the land owner during 2008 are $83,000. All payments are made in local currency and the amounts in U.S. currency will fluctuate with exchange rates. During 2007, 2006 and 2005 $55,000, $25,000 and $24,000, respectively, were paid under the terms of the contract.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The property can be accessed by a local unpaved road that services the region. This road is open for approximately eight months of the year but is subject to intermittent closing due to weather conditions during the four month rainy season. Additionally, an unpaved landing strip for light aircraft is located on the property. The climate is warm and humid year round. Work at the property is difficult during the rainy season from January though March and generally field activities are suspended during this time. Solitario maintains a camp constructed of wooden buildings on the site that can accommodate up to 30 people. At the same location is a small community of artesianal
<PAGE>
miners and a store for basic goods. The nearest town with services is Almedia, approximately 100 kilometers by road from the project. The terrain is flat to gently rolling and is covered with tropical vegetation.
3. History
Small scale artesianal mining for gold by gravity methods has been conducted on the property for ten years. No systematic exploration prior to Solitario's arrival has ever been conducted.
4. Geological Setting
The region is underlain by granite rocks and granitic gneisses. Most of these rocks are medium to coarse-grained but later dikes occur that are fine- to very fine-grained. Basaltic dikes locally cut the basement. Weathering is intense and has converted the rocks to saprolite to depths of up to 50 m.
5. Prior Exploration
No known exploration has been conducted on the property prior to the Solitario 2005 program except for local artesianal exploration and mining. During 2005 and 2006, we conducted extensive geochemical sampling that included both detailed and widely spaced grid sampling of soils, and to a lesser extent mechanized auger sampling of soils up to 10 meters in depth. All soil and auger samples were analyzed for gold. In 2005 we conducted a widespread ground magnetic survey to further define potential drill targets. In 2006 we conducted induced polarization (IP) geophysical survey to further aid us in selecting drill-hole locations.
6. Mineralization
Gold mineralization has been detected by detailed soil sampling over an area that is at least five kilometers long in an east-west direction and 4 kilometers wide in a north-south direction. In bedrock, gold mineralization occurs along steeply dipping shears in the granite and along dike boundaries of later, finer grained phases of granite. Gold enrichment occurs in E-W trending zones. Pyrite is the only common sulfide mineral but it occurs only in small amounts, generally from 1/2% to 3%. Rarely, galena, chalcopyrite and sphalerite have been observed in trace amounts. Quartz as veinlets and as veins up to 30 cm are most commonly associated with gold mineralization, though silicification as a replacement texture is important locally. Silver values and the quantities of other valuable metals are uniformly low.
<PAGE>
7. Drilling
Solitario drilled 12 core holes totaling 2,435 meters in 2005 and 11 core holes totaling 1,596 meters in 2006. A third round of drilling that began in late-2007 is scheduled to be completed by the end of February 2008. As of the end of February 2008, no assays of drill core for the third round of drilling have been received. Drill holes completed in 2005 and 2006 were located primarily in three widely-spaced prospect areas: the Patoa, Colonia and Tucanaré. Drill hole locations for 2007-2008 are more widely dispersed away from these prospects. Drilling results for 2005 through 2007 are provided below.
2005-2007 Mercurio Drill Hole Assay Results
Prospect Name
Hole
Number
From
Meters
To
Meters
Interval
Meters
Gold Grade
g/t
Patoa
SB-01
16.8
24.4
6.6
1.18
57.6
60.1
2.5
2.09
68.6
71.7
3.1
1.94
82.3
93.1
10.8
1.27
SB-02
63.2
67.9
4.7
2.43
SB-04
13.7
35.6
21.9
6.97
including
13.7
25.9
12.2
12.22
60.2
70.2
10.0
0.97
West Patoa
SB-06
19.8
35.1
15.3
0.86
including
21.4
24.4
3.0
2.03
146.3
152.4
6.1
1.26
Colonia
SB-08
47.3
65.6
18.3
1.89
including
50.3
53.3
3.0
6.48
SB-09
60.9
67.7
6.8
1.79
South Patoa
SB-10
36.8
42.7
4.4
4.72
Tucanarei
SB-11
32.0
36.5
4.5
3.36
SB-12
39.6
56.1
16.5
1.94
including
46.5
50.6
4.1
5.29
Colonia
SB-13
77.0
105.0
28.0
1.0
SB-15
111.0
117.0
6.0
1.8
SB-16
94.0
101.0
7.0
6.8
Patoa
SB-18
7.2
41.2
34.0
2.7
SB-19
22.1
25.1
3.0
1.1
39.1
41.5
2.4
1.9
110.7
112.7
2.0
1.8
SB-20
62.6
88.1
25.5
1.6
Tucanare
SB-21
55.8
67.6
11.8
0.6
74.5
78.1
3.6
1.6
122.4
131.8
9.4
0.7
SB-22
39.8
41.9
2.1
1.8
SB-23
199.3
205.7
6.4
2.1
No estimate of true width of mineralized intercepts shown above can yet be made
8. Sampling and Analysis
Soils were taken over large areas and analyzed by assay and by panning to aid in exploration. Auger samples up to 10 meters in depth were also taken in selected areas and analyzed similarly. Sawed core samples were transported from the drill to the camp by vehicle then by truck, boat or plane to the nearest population center where they were air transported to central Brazil for sample preparation at ALS Chemex Laboratories in Goianania or SGS Laboratories in Minas Gerais, Brazil. Final analysis for samples sent to ALS Chemex was completed in the ALS Chemex laboratory in Vancouver, Canada or in Lima, Peru.
9. Security of Samples
The geologist in charge supervised the collection of samples on site and the shipping from the site to the point of air transport. Sample tracking by Solitario incorporated transport records and sample receipt by the laboratory in Brazil. Shipping outside of Brail was supervised by the laboratory.
10. Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve Estimations
No mineral reserves or resources are reported on the property.
11. Mining Operations
There are no mining operations on the property.
<PAGE>
12. Planned Exploration
We recently completed a 1,500 to 2,000-meter Phase III drilling program that began in late-2007 at the end of February 2008 and are awaiting results. If results warrant, we anticipate a fourth round of drilling to occur in mid-2008.
Santiago Gold Zinc Property (Peru)
The Santiago prospect consists of 6 mining claims that total 5,600 hectares. During 2007, Solitario capitalized $17,000 in lease acquisition costs related to these concessions. The prospect geology consists of nearly flat lying tertiary volcanics that have been silicified and pyritized. Alteration can be traced discontinuously for 9 km x 2.5 km. Post alteration lava flows cover up the underlying altered rocks leaving only "windows" through the fresh rock into mineralization that can be sampled. Much of the alteration is high sulfidation epithermal gold in character but has been overprinted by low sulfidation type mineral assemblages. Work to date consists mainly of stream sediment sampling, rock chip channel sampling and reconnaissance geologic mapping. Some detailed geologic mapping has been initiated in areas of higher potential. Drilling is under consideration for the project in 2008.
Chambara Zinc Property (Peru)
From 1997 through 2007 we acquired 13 concessions covering 9,300 hectares of 100%-owned mineral rights that now constitute our Chambara property. During 2007, Solitario capitalized $17,000 in lease acquisition costs related to these concessions. The Chambara project, formerly called the Amazonas project, consists of six widely spaced areas where previous sampling has identified high-grade zinc mineralization at surface similar to that found at Florida Canyon (see Bongará Zinc project, above under "Joint Ventures, Royalty and the Strategic Alliance Properties"). Solitario is in discussions to potentially joint venture the property with a third party. However, we can make no representation that a joint venture agreement will be signed on the property
La Tola Gold Property (Peru)
In October 2003, we acquired the La Tola project in southern Peru to explore for gold and possibly silver. The project is located in southern Peru. In April 2004, we signed a Letter Agreement with Newmont Peru, whereby Newmont Peru could earn a 51%-interest in the La Tola property by completing $7.0 million of exploration over four years and an additional 14% interest by completing a feasibility study and by arranging 100% project financing. On June 22, 2005, Newmont Peru informed Solitario that it had elected to terminate its option to earn an interest in the La Tola project and Solitario recorded an $18,000 impairment related to the La Tola project. We retained one claim covering 1,000 hectares.
In August 2007 we signed a Letter of Intent with Canadian Shield Resources ("CSR") allowing CSR to earn a 100%-interest in the property, subject to a 2% net smelter return royalty ("NSR") to our benefit. To earn its interest, CSR is required to spend $2.0 million in exploration by December 31, 2011. CSM has the right to purchase the 2% NSR for $1.5 million anytime before commercial production is reached. Because the Letter of Intent with CSR provides that our ending interest in La Tola will be a 2% net smelter royalty, rather than a working interest, we currently classify the La Tola gold property as a royalty property interest.
Triunfo Gold-Silver-Lead-Zinc Property (Bolivia)
We signed an Option to Purchase a 100% interest in the mineral rights on the 256-hectare gold, silver, lead and zinc Triunfo property in Bolivia in July 2003. Amendments modifying the option were signed in March of 2004, September of 2005 and June of 2006. The option, as amended, calls for Solitario to spend up to $2.3 million on exploration activities over a five-year period and make payments to the underlying owners of up to $170,000 over the first four years, with an option for us to acquire a 100% interest in the property by making a one-time payment of $1.0 million by the fifth anniversary of the signing of the option. Solitario must pay $35,000 in June 2008 to keep the agreement in force for one year. We may elect to terminate the option at anytime without any additional payment or work commitment obligations due to the underlying owner.
The project is located about 50 kilometers east of the Bolivian capital of La Paz at an elevation of approximately 4,500 meters. Access is gained by a well-maintained gravel road from La Paz. We have completed construction of a 2.5-kilometer road to the property. The project hosts a large mineralized area extending for at least 800 meters in length and up to 200 meters in width. Mineralization occurs as a stockwork zone of veining within a sequence of Paleozoic shales, siltstones and quartzites. Within the mineralized zone, surface sampling has returned elevated values of gold, silver, lead and zinc.
In mid-2007 we completed three core holes totaling 679 meters. All three holes intersected significant widths of low-grade polymetallic mineralization. Drill hole T-1 intersected 94.2 meters grading 0.65% lead, 0.39% zinc, 21.8 gpt silver and 0.39 gpt gold. We currently have the project on care and maintenance status until the political situation in Bolivia becomes sufficiently stable to justify a more significant exploration program.
<PAGE>
Discontinued Projects
During 2007 we abandoned the following projects:
Corazon / Conception del Oro
In September 2005, we signed an agreement with a private Mexican mineral concession holder allowing us to enter into lease options on four separate properties located throughout central Mexico, which included the Corazon gold property (formerly called the Concepcion del Oro property), located in the Conception del Oro mining district near the city of Mazapil in the state of Zacatecas. The Corazon property consists of 35 concessions totaling approximately 1,420 hectares. The agreement called for us to make an initial payment of $15,000 on signing and provided that we would conduct surface exploration on the four properties over a six-month period. We elected to sign definitive option agreements on the Corazon and the La Purisima properties. The other two properties were dropped. As a result of ongoing geologic and exploration activities including mapping and sampling, we made the decision to drop our interest in the Corazon property. We recorded property abandonment and impairment expense of $5,000 related to the write-off of the capitalized costs on this property during 2007. We have no additional work or payment obligations and no further work is planned for the Corazon property.
La Purisima
The La Purisima gold property is located near the city of Tepic in the state of Navarit in Mexico and consists of six concessions totaling 600 hectares. The La Purisima property was acquired as part of the four property agreement discussed above under Corazon. The La Purisima property required payments to the concession holder of $10,000 in 2006, which has been paid, and $35,000 in 2007 to maintain the option agreements in good standing. As a result of ongoing geologic and exploration activities during the first three months of 2007, we made the decision to drop our interest in the La Purisima project. We recorded property abandonment and impairment expense of $5,000 related to the write-off of the capitalized costs on this property during 2007. We have no additional work or payment obligations and no further work is planned for the La Purisima property.
Titicayo
On March 31, 2006, we signed a lease agreement with a private Bolivian company to lease certain concessions covering approximately 1,300 hectares, which comprise the Titicayo silver project in Bolivia. We capitalized our initial payment under the lease of $10,000. The lease calls for additional escalating lease payments over a six year period totaling $990,000, after which we will own a 99% participating interest in the concessions. An amendment to the Titicayo Agreement was signed in November of 2006 that delayed the first additional lease payment until June 2007 with a corresponding adjustment to the rest of the payment schedule. A one time payment of $10,000 was made to the claim holders in consideration for this amended schedule.
In 2007 we completed a five-hole 1,031-meter core drilling program to test silver bearing vein observed at surface at deeper levels. Although all five drill holes intersected anomalous silver concentrations, we do not believe further exploration would enhance our results. Consequently, we recorded property abandonment and impairment expense of $10,000 related to the write-off of the capitalized costs on this property during 2007. We have no additional work or payment obligations and no further work is planned for the Titicayo property.
Item 3.