Item 2. Properties
Florida Canyon Zinc Project (Peru)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Florida Canyon Property formerly Bongará)
On August 15, 2006, Solitario signed a Letter Agreement with Votorantim Metais Cajamarquilla, S.A., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Votorantim (now known as Nexa) (both companies are referred to in this Item 2 as "Nexa”) on Solitario's 100%-owned Florida Canyon zinc project (formerly called the Bongará project), On March 24, 2007, Solitario signed the Framework Agreement with Votorantim for the Exploration and Potential Development of Mining Properties, pursuant to, and replacing, the Florida Canyon Letter Agreement. In 2015 Votorantim transferred its interest in the Florida Canyon project to Compañía Minera Milpo S.A.A. (“Milpo”), an 80%-owned affiliate of Votorantim. In October of 2017, Milpo and Votorantim merged to form Nexa. Nexa completed an IPO raising $570 million and listed on the NYSE under the trading symbol NEXA and the TSX under the trading symbol NEXA. For the remainder of this Florida Canyon property section, all references to Votorantim, Milpo or Nexa will be collectively referred to as Nexa.
The Florida Canyon project consists of 16 concessions comprising 12,600 hectares of mineral rights originally granted to Minera Bongará S.A., our subsidiary incorporated in Peru. The property is located in the Department of Amazonas, northern Peru. Solitario's and Nexa’s property interests are held through the ownership of shares in Minera Bongará S.A., a joint operating company that holds a 100% interest in the mineral rights and other project assets. Solitario currently owns 39% of the Florida Canyon project.
During 2015 Nexa completed the steps required to earn a 61% interest in the Florida Canyon project, with Solitario retaining a 39% interest. Nexa may earn an additional 9% interest (up to a 70% shareholding interest) in Minera Bongará S.A., by sole-funding future annual exploration and development expenditures until a production decision is made. The option to earn the 70% interest can be exercised by Nexa at any time by committing to place the project into production based upon a completed feasibility study. Nexa is the project manager. Once Nexa has committed to place the project into production based upon a feasibility study, it has further agreed to finance Solitario's 30% participating interest until production with a loan facility from Nexa to Solitario. Solitario will repay this loan facility through 50% of Solitario's cash flow distributions from the joint operating company. Solitario completed the funding of $1,580,000 of the Drilling Program during 2019. The paid funding of the Drilling Program will be treated as an advance on Solitario’s commitment to fund 30% of any future construction development costs of Florida Canyon under the original joint venture agreement. Accordingly, in the event the Florida Canyon project is developed, which cannot be assured at this time, the funds paid to Nexa under this agreement will reduce the amount of Solitario’s obligation to fund 30% of future development costs, and / or repay loans from Nexa for future development costs at the Florida Canyon project.
According to Peruvian law, concessions may be held indefinitely, subject only to payment of annual fees to the government. In June 2020, payments of approximately $289,000 to the Peruvian government will be due in order to maintain the Florida Canyon mineral rights of Minera Bongará. Nexa is responsible for paying these costs as part of its earn-in expenditures. Peru imposes a sliding scale royalty varying from 1% to 12% of the operating profit of a mining operation. The percentage royalty is determined by rule based on the operating margin; however, the minimum royalty is 1% of the revenues.
From time to time Nexa may enter into surface rights agreements with individual landowners or communities to provide access for exploration work at the Florida Canyon project. Generally, these are short-term agreements.
Environmental permits are required for exploration and development projects in Peru that involve drilling, road building or underground mining. The requisite environmental and archeological studies were completed for all past work, but new studies are required for expanded activities planned for future years at the Florida Canyon project. Although we believe that these permits will be obtained in a timely fashion, the timing of government approval of permits remains beyond our control.
2. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
The Florida Canyon property is accessed from the coastal city of Chiclayo by the paved Carretera Marginal road, which is a heavily travelled paved national highway that passes approximately eight kilometers south of the deposit. The nearest town to the project is Pedro Ruiz located 15 kilometers southeast of the property. The area of the majority of past drilling and the most prospective mineralization, Florida Canyon, was previously inaccessible by road, the work to date having been done by either foot or helicopter access. Nexa has now completed approximately 30 kilometers of access road and Nexa is planning to complete the road access to the mineralized area of the project in 2020. Nexa maintains project field offices in Pedro Ruiz and a drill core processing facility and operations office in the nearby community of Shipasbamba.
The project area elevation ranges between 1,800 and 3,200 meters above sea level. The climate is tropical with an average annual temperature of approximately 25oC. Mean annual rainfall exceeds one meter with up to two meters in the cloud forest at higher elevations. Most precipitation occurs during the rainy season, between November and April. Field work is considerably more difficult in the rainy season. Topography is steep, consisting of prominent escarpments and deep valleys. Dense jungle or forest vegetation covers the project area. With the exception of the partially completed access road and approximately 700 meters of tunneling, no infrastructure facilities have been constructed within the project area.
3. History
We discovered the Florida Canyon mineralized zone of the Florida Canyon Project in 1996. Subsequently, we joint ventured the property in December 1996 to Cominco (now Teck). Cominco drilled 80 core holes from 1997-2000. Cominco withdrew from the joint venture in February 2001, and Solitario retained its 100% interest in the project. We maintained the claims from 2001 to 2006, until the Florida Canyon Letter Agreement was signed. Nexa conducted surface drilling on an annual basis from 2006 to 2013 and from 2018 to 2019, and underground tunneling and drilling from 2010 to 2013. All significant work on the property has been conducted by our joint venture partners, Cominco and Nexa and, is described below in Section 5, “Prior Exploration.”
4. Geological Setting
The project is located within an extensive belt of Mesozoic carbonate rocks belonging to the Upper Triassic to Lower Jurassic Pucará Group and equivalents. This belt extends through the central and eastern extent of the Peruvian Andes for nearly 1000 km and is the host for many polymetallic and base metal vein and replacement deposits in the Peruvian Mineral Belt. Among these is the San Vicente Mississippi Valley Type (“MVT”) zinc-lead deposit that has many similarities to the Florida Canyon deposit and other MVT occurrences in the Project area.
The geology of the Florida Canyon area is relatively simple consisting of a sequence of Jurassic and Triassic clastic and carbonate rocks which are gently deformed into a broad northwesterly trending domal anticline. The MVT zinc-lead mineralization occurs in the carbonate facies of the Chambara (rock) Formation. This domal anticline is cut on the west by the Sam Fault and to the east by the Tesoro-Florida Fault.
5. Prior Exploration
We conducted a regional stream sediment survey and reconnaissance geological surveys leading to the discovery of the Florida Canyon area in 1996. The discovered outcropping mineralization is located in two deeply incised canyons within the limestone stratigraphy.
Subsequent to our initial work, Cominco conducted extensive mapping, soil and rock sampling, stream sediment surveys and drilling. This work was designed to determine the extent and grade of the zinc-lead mineralization, the controls of mineral deposition and to identify areas of potential new mineralization. Nexa began work in the fall of 2006 and drilled annually from 2006 through 2013. Underground exploration operations were conducted from 2011-2013. Since 2013 the most important work conducted consisted of continued access road construction and metallurgical testing. All work performed by us, Cominco, and Nexa was done by direct employees of the respective companies with the exception of the drilling, underground tunneling, helicopter services and road building, all of which were performed by third-party contractors under the direction of Cominco and Nexa.
6. Mineralization
Mineralization occurs as massive to semi-massive replacements of sphalerite and galena localized by specific sedimentary facies (rock strata) within the limestone stratigraphy and by structural feeders and karst breccias. More than three-quarters of mineralization is sulfide-dominant with the remainder being oxide-dominant. A total of 11 preferred beds for replacement mineralization have been located within the middle unit of the Chambara Formation. Mineralization is associated with the conversion of limestone to dolomite, which creates porosity and permeability within the rock formations. It is believed that mineralizing fluids passed through structurally controlled vertical feeder zones and into adjacent near-horizontal rock formations to produce mineralized vertical replacement bodies and stratigraphically controlled near-horizontal manto deposits. Drilling of stratigraphic targets has shown that certain coarser-grained facies of the stratigraphy are the best hosts for manto mineralization. Stratigraphically controlled mineralization is typically one to several meters in thickness, but often attains thicknesses of five to ten meters.
Karst features are localized along the feeder faults and locally produce "breakout zones" where mineralization may extend vertically across thick stratigraphic intervals where collapse breccias have been replaced by ore minerals. Mineralized karst structures are up to 50 meters in width (horizontal), up to 100 meters vertically, and up to hundreds of meters along strike.
Evidence for these breakout zones is provided by the following drill holes from various locations on the property:
Dolomitization reaches stratigraphic thicknesses in excess of 100 meters locally. This alteration is thought to be related to the mineralizing event and is an important exploration tool. Continuity of the mineralization is demonstrable in areas of highest drilling density by correlation of mineralization within characteristic sedimentary facies, typical of specific stratigraphic intervals or within through-going observable structural zones in drill core. At Florida Canyon the high-angle mineralization occurs along well-defined northwest and northeast fracture systems. These structures occur in conjugate fractures, with N10º-50ºE trends present at a number of mineralized surface outcrops while trends of N50º-80ºW are identified at other showings.
7. Drilling
From 1997 through 2001, Cominco drilled 80 surface core holes totaling 24,696 meters. From 2006-2013, Nexa completed 309 surface core holes totaling 77,193 meters. From 2011-2013, Nexa completed 95 underground core holes totaling 15,144 meters. The underground drilling was conducted from 10 drill stations at generally 40-meter centers (two drill stations at 20-meter centers) and entirely within the San Jorge mineralized zone. Anywhere from three to 14 holes were drilled from each of the ten drill stations. The underground drilling was tightly spaced and designed to allow for feasibility-level reserve estimation.
From November 2018 to October 2019, Nexa completed a 39-hole, 17,033-meter core drilling program. The majority of holes were drilled 2019. The program had three major objectives: 1) extend the San Jorge near-vertical replacement body to the south and the adjacent near-horizontal manto bodies to the east; 2) offset previously drilled hole V-21 in the northern part of Florida Canyon to determine if it represented a significant near-vertical replacement body with horizontal mantos similar to the San Jorge Zone; and 3) extend horizontal mantos in the central and northern parts of the Florida Canyon drilling footprint. All three objectives were successfully achieved.
All past drilling conducted is within a footprint measuring approximately 2.5 kilometers long in a north-south direction and a little over a kilometer in an east-west direction. The entire drill pattern is within what we have informally labeled the Florida Canyon district. Within this district, several zones of strong zinc mineralization have been defined. The two zones with the largest amount of drilling are the San Jorge and the Karen-Milagros zones. We believe that additional detailed drilling of the newly delineated 1021 zone in the northern part of the Florida Canyon district has potential to add significant new resources. Drilling indicates that, for the most part, the entire Florida Canyon district remains open to expansion and the identified zones are interconnected. Better 2018-2019 drill-hole intercepts are provided in the table below:
*Zn-Eq was calculated using the following price assumptions: Zn=$1.10/lb., Pb=$0.91lb., Ag=$16.50/oz.
Reported intervals are estimated to be at least 80% of the true thickness
Numbers in this table may not add exactly as numbers have been rounded to the nearest decimal
8. Sampling, Analysis and Security of Samples
Core samples were transported from the drill by helicopter in sealed boxes to the processing facility in Shipasbamba where they were cut with a diamond saw. Half of the core was taken of intervals selected according to geologic criteria under the supervision of the geologist in charge and shipped in sealed bags by land. Cominco used SGS Laboratories and Nexa used ALS-Chemex, both in Lima, Peru, where all samples were analyzed by ICP. Any samples that contained greater than 1% zinc were then analyzed by wet chemistry assay for zinc and lead to provide a more accurate analysis of grade.
Since 2006, Nexa has been in control of all field activities on the project and is responsible for the security of samples. Nexa has indicated that there have been no breaches in the security of the samples. We have reviewed and engaged SRK Consulting (USA) Inc. (“SRK”) (a large independent international mining engineering firm) to review Nexa’s sampling procedures and believe that adequate procedures are in place to ensure the future security and integrity of samples. No breaches of security of samples are known to have occurred prior to Nexa’s work on the project.
9. Prefeasibility Studies
Nexa, either through its engineering staff or contracted independent mining engineering firms, has conducted prefeasibility-level studies to provide estimates of deposit size and grade, mining and processing recoveries, sizing of appropriate scale of operations, infrastructure design, and capital and operating cost estimates at a level of detail varying from preliminary economic assessment to prefeasibility levels. These studies were generally performed between 2007 and 2014.
Solitario and Nexa jointly completed a PEA for the entire project in 2017 that incorporated a variety of Nexa-generated studies into the analysis. The PEA evaluation included resource estimation, mining and processing recovery estimates, a preliminary mining and processing plan, infrastructure layout, environmental considerations and an economic analysis based on certain base case parameters. The PEA envisioned an underground mining operation with a 2,500 tonne per day floatation mill for processing, resulting in a 12.5-year mine life. It was assumed that concentrates would be trucked to Nexa’s Cajamarquilla zinc smelter facility in Lima Peru.
Metallurgical testing to evaluate metal recoveries and various processing options for mineralized material at Florida Canyon was conducted in 2010, 2011 and 2014. Tests to date on composited samples indicate zinc recoveries of 91.8% and lead recoveries of 81.9% in the San Jorge zone and zinc recoveries of 80.3% and lead recoveries of 71.7% in the Karen-Milagros zone. These recoveries represent averages for each zone based on sulfide dominant mineralization, but oxide material was present in the tested samples. Nexa also conducted a comprehensive geochemical testing program that demonstrated that zinc (and lead) recoveries were significantly affected by the Zn-sulfide/Zn-oxide ratio of mineralization. In general, mineralized material with greater than an 80% ratio of Zn-sulfide/Zn-oxide, recoveries are greater than 90% for Zn. Conversely, for mineralized material, with less than a 20% ratio of Zn-sulfide/Zn-oxide, recoveries are approximately 40% for Zn. Although sulfide recoveries achieved to date are very good, SRK suggests that optimization of processing and metallurgical parameters may result in improved recoveries and concentrate grade.
Other prefeasibility work completed by Nexa included drilling 16 diamond core holes in 2013 to evaluate geotechnical and hydrological parameters of the mineralized areas for both engineering and environmental purposes. In 2016, Nexa completed a geochemical/metallurgical study that more accurately defined the distribution of sulfide/oxide mineralization based on re-assaying of nearly all past drill-hole samples. This information was critical in resource estimation and accurately estimating metal recoveries.
The 2017 Florida Canyon Project PEA was completed by SRK on behalf of Nexa and Solitario in August of 2017. The NI 43-101 compliant study entitled: “Technical Report, Preliminary Economic Assessment, Florida Canyon Zinc Project,
Amazonas Department, Peru; Effective Date: July 13, 2017, Report Date: August 3, 2017;” can be found in the Company’s Canadian Sedar filings and is furnished in the Company’s U.S. Edgar filings.
10. Reserves and Resources
There are no reported mineral reserves.
11. Mining Operations
No commercial mining operations to recover metals have occurred on the project. However, in September 2010 Nexa initiated an underground tunneling program to access mineralization and completed its underground work in 2013. As of December 31, 2019, 700 meters of tunneling were completed.
12. Planned Exploration and Development
Nexa is currently working on a new NI-43101 compliant resource estimate incorporating the 2018-2019 drill hole assay results. This new estimate is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2020. Nexa is also planning to permit 84 new drilling platforms and associated interconnecting roads scattered over an area approximately six kilometers by five kilometers in 2020. These proposed platforms are located immediately south and southeast of the current Florida Canyon drilling footprint. Permitting is expected to take approximately one year. Drilling may be possible for the 2021 field season, depending upon the grant of permits and funding approvals by Nexa. Nexa is also planning to conduct a new metallurgical study beginning in the second quarter of 2020. This study is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2020. In addition, Nexa plans to conduct additional road construction in 2020 to access local communities as part of their social commitment to these communities.
Lik Project (Alaska)
1. Property Description and Location
(Map of Lik Property) Lik.jpg
The Lik property consists of 47 contiguous Alaska state mining claims. The contiguous claims have been grouped together for the purpose of working and operating under a common plan of development for the benefit of all of the claims. The claims cover an area of approximately 6,075 acres (2,460 ha). The claims are located in the southwestern DeLong Mountains in the Wulik River drainage.
To retain the state claims, the Company is required to make annual rental payments to the State of Alaska. The estimated rental payments for 2020 are $7,000. Property holders are also required to perform assessment work with the amount dependent on the area of the State claims. Excess assessment expenditure credits may be carried forward for a maximum of four years. If required, payments may be made in lieu of work to allow retention of the property for a period of five consecutive years. The geographical coordinates of the Lik deposit are approximately 163o 12’ W and 68o 10’ N. The figure above illustrates the location of the Lik property.
2. Acquisition History and Joint Venture Arrangement
Solitario acquired its 50% interest in the Lik property from the acquisition of Zazu Metals Corp (“Zazu”) on July 12, 2017. As a result of the Acquisition, Zazu became a wholly owned subsidiary of Solitario. Prior to that, Zazu acquired its 50% interest in the Lik property from GCO Minerals Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the International Paper Company (“GCO”), on June 28, 2007 by making a cash payment to GCO of $20,000,000 and granting GCO a 2% net proceeds interest. GCO also owns an additional 1% net profits interest in the Lik property from a 1997 agreement.
The Company is participating in the exploration and possible development of the Lik property through a joint venture with Teck American Incorporated (50%), a wholly owned subsidiary of Teck Resources Limited (collectively “Teck”). The terms of the joint venture were governed by the Lik Block Agreement, made as of January 27, 1983, between Houston Oil & Minerals Exploration Company (“HOMEX”) and GCO. HOMEX assigned its interest in the Lik Block Agreement to Echo Bay Mines Ltd., which, in turn, assigned such interest to Teck.
Under the terms of the Lik Block Agreement, GCO held a 50% interest, and the right to increase its interest to up to 80% provided that GCO met an inflation-adjusted work commitment. The required expenditure amount was originally $25 million when defined in 1983 and increased with inflation indexing and escalations to approximately $43 million at the time Solitario acquired Zazu. As of January 27, 2018, we estimated that approximately $22 million had been incurred towards the inflation adjusted $43 million expenditure required to earn an additional 30% interest in the property.
As the Company did not spend the full inflation-adjusted expenditure amount by January 27, 2018, the Lik Block Agreement terminated. Consequently, as of December 31, 2019, Teck retains its 50% participating interest in the Lik property, and Teck and Solitario are negotiating a new a joint operating agreement that will govern all further operations relating to the Lik property. We anticipate that under such joint operating agreement, Solitario, as successor to GCO, may be the operator and may have full and exclusive control of the Lik property, its facilities and production as well as the exploration, development and mining undertaken pursuant to the Lik Block Agreement. The current agreement requires unanimous approval by the parties for annual expenditures in excess of $1 million. In July 2018, the Company and Teck signed a Joint Exploration Agreement (“JEA”) whereby both parties agreed to fund a surface exploration program on a 50%-50% basis for 2018. In January 2019, the Company and Teck signed an Addendum to extend the JEA to January 31, 2020. However, pending the completion of a new joint operating agreement, an extension to the JEA is expected to be signed prior to the end of the first quarter 2020 to further extend the terms of the JEA into early 2021 to provide for the planned 2020 exploration program on the project. Teck was designated the operator for only the 2019 and 2018 programs and is expected to be the designated operator under the planned extensions of the JEA only for the upcoming 2020 program.
3. Accessibility, Climate, Local Resources, Infrastructure and Physiology
Access to the Lik property is by air to a gravel surfaced airstrip located on the property. The airstrip is capable of handling multi-engine cargo planes. Charter flights may be arranged from a number of sites in northwestern Alaska. The town of Kotzebue, which is located about 90 miles from the deposit, is a seaport with commercial air service from Anchorage. Kotzebue is the center for access to the nearby Red Dog mine operated by Teck.
The nearest location for which climatic data is available is the town of Kotzebue. The average annual temperature at Kotzebue is 21.6oF, with seasonal extremes ranging between 77oF in summer to -58oF in winter. There is an average of nine inches of rain and 47 inches of snowfall per year. Snow falls are not extreme but blowing snow may form significant drifts. Strong winds are common in most parts of Alaska. Diamond drilling is possible at the Lik property between June and October.
The exposures of mineralization at the Lik property are located at about 800 feet above sea level. West of the deposit, the land rises steeply to peaks about 2,300 feet above sea level. To the southeast, the land slopes down to the Wulik River where the bottom of the valley is about 700 feet above sea level. There is sufficient space for tailings and waste rock disposal, and sufficient water is expected to be available for any proposed processing. Locally, there is vegetation on the property consisting of tundra grasses and low brush made up of willow, dwarf birch, and alder.
There is a camp located on the Lik property. The camp has been used periodically over the last twelve years and was substantially refurbished as a part the 2007 and 2008 field programs. The supply of electric power and workforce accommodation will have to be developed. There are no local resources adjacent to the Lik property. The Red Dog mine, operated by Teck, is located about 13.6 miles southeast of the deposit. Potentially, concentrates could be moved along the access road from the Red Dog mine to the port on the Chukchi Sea. The port has a shipping season in excess of 100 days.
Zazu entered into an agreement with Alaska Industrial Development and Export Agency (“AIDEA”) to enable AIDEA to begin due diligence on the proposed expansion of the port and the Red Dog road, the Delong Mountain Transportation System (“DMTS”), to potentially handle Lik concentrates. AIDEA, as owners of the DMTS, evaluated their possible role in the two parts of the proposed expansion project: the financing of a spur road connecting the Lik project to the DMTS, and the financing of any required modifications at the port. The DMTS is open to multiple users such as the Company. The studied expansion would facilitate both the development of the Lik project and handle future concentrate production from the project. The DMTS road and port system currently handles all concentrate produced by the Red Dog zinc mine of Teck. Prior to the AIDEA agreement, Zazu received a letter of Non-Objection from the Northwest Arctic Borough (“NWAB”). In this letter, the NWAB formally acknowledged its awareness of the Lik project, and that NWAB had no objection to the project.
In January 2015, AIDEA announced the completion of its study into capacity availability in its DMTS. The report concluded that there is sufficient excess capacity for the Company’s concentrate shipping needs, confirming the assumptions made in Zazu's 2014 PEA. This study aimed to closely identify the outputs of both Lik and Red Dog, if any modifications are required to the DMTS to support them, and if so, their potential cost. The study concluded that sufficient handling capacity will exist with only minor modifications required to accommodate future planned production from Lik under the analyzed PEA scenario.
4. History
The Red Dog ore deposit was originally discovered in 1970 by a geologist undertaking mapping in the De Long Mountains area on behalf of the United States Geological Survey. GCO, in joint venture with New Jersey Zinc Company and WGM Inc., carried out stream geochemical sampling and reconnaissance for color anomalies. Claims were staked in July 1976 to cover a stream geochemical anomaly on Lik Creek. HOMEX replaced New Jersey Zinc Company in the joint venture in 1976/1977.
Diamond drilling on the Lik property commenced in 1977 and targeted a gossan with a coincident soil and electromagnetic anomaly. The first hole encountered massive lead-zinc-silver-bearing sulfides. By the end of 1977, the joint venture had completed 25 line-miles of ground geophysics, a soil sampling program, and ten diamond drill holes with an aggregate depth of 5,260 feet. In 1978 and 1979, further geological, geochemical and geophysical surveys were carried out, together with the drilling of another 93 diamond drill holes aggregating 51,200 feet. A mineral resource was estimated. The joint venture continued to work in the district in the period 1980 to 1983. However, only limited diamond drilling activity continued on the Lik property. The Lik Block Agreement was signed in 1984.
In 1984, Noranda optioned the GCO holding of the Lik property. Much of Noranda’s activity was concentrated in the Lik North Area where ten diamond drill holes with an aggregate depth of 13,710 feet were completed on four sections. Noranda also drilled holes in the Lik South deposit to better define the deposit. Noranda released its interest in the Lik property after a re-organization of its holdings in the United States. From 1985 through June of 2007, when Zazu acquired its interest in the Lik property, only a limited amount of work was conducted at Lik.
Zazu completed diamond drilling programs during the 2007, 2008 and 2011 summer field seasons. From 2009 through 2014, Zazu conducted a suite of economic, engineering, environmental and metallurgical studies on the Lik property, culminating with the completion of a PEA in 2014.
5. Geological Setting
The regional geology of the Western Brooks Range area is structurally complex. The sedimentary rocks of the area have been significantly disrupted by thrust sheets. The Lik property and the other zinc-lead deposits of the Brooks Range, including Red Dog, are hosted in the Kuna Formation of the Lisburne Group. In the Western Brooks Range, the Lisburne Group includes both deep and shallow water sedimentary facies and local volcanic rocks. The rocks have been extensively disrupted by thrusting. The deep-water facies of the Lisburne Group, the Kuna Formation, are exposed chiefly in the Endicott Mountains.
On a district scale, the Lik property is hosted in the Red Dog plate of the Endicott Mountains thrust sheet. The stratigraphically lowest rocks within the Red Dog plate belong to the Kayak Shale. The top of the Kayak Shale is interbedded with rocks of the Kuna Formation. The Ikalukrok Unit has been divided into a lower laminated black shale sub-unit and an upper medium- to thick-bedded black chert sub-unit. The Ikalukrok Unit hosts all of the massive sulfide deposits in the area.
Locally, the Lik property is hosted in the upper part of the Ikalukrok Unit of the Kuna Formation. The host rocks are carbonaceous and siliceous black shale, with subordinate black chert and fine-grained limestone. These rocks strike broadly north-south and dip at about 25o to 40o to the west. The massive sulfides are overlain conformably by rocks of the Siksikpuk Formation. The sequence is overridden by allochthonous rocks that form high hills north and west of the deposits.
The mineralized sequence is cut by a number of faults. The most significant disruption is the Main Break Fault, which drops the northern end of the Lik deposit down about 500 feet. It is unclear whether there is a change in strike north of the fault, or whether the change is more apparent due to topography. The Main Break Fault strikes east-west and dips north at about 60o. There is another group of steeper faults that tend to strike northerly or northwesterly and which are interpreted as being both normal and reverse with throws of up to 330 feet.
6. Prior Exploration and the Results of the 2019 Exploration Program
The Red Dog ore deposit was originally discovered in 1970 by a geologist undertaking mapping in the De Long Mountains area on behalf of the United States Geological Survey. The Lik deposit was discover by GCO in the mid-1970’s by following up on soil color and stream geochemical anomalies. From the late 1970’s to 2011, various geochemical, geophysical and geologic activities were intermittently conducted to define drill targets. The Lik property was sporadically drill tested from the late-1970’s to 2011 by seven different companies. Details of these historical drilling campaigns are discussed above under the heading “History” and below under the heading “Drilling.”
The 2019 exploration program consisted of geologic mapping, geochemical sampling, re-logging of old core, XRF analysis for trace elements in old core, reinterpretation of the stratigraphic and structural setting in the vicinity of the Lik deposit and ground gravity geophysical surveying. The geologic mapping program resulted in a better understanding of the stratigraphic and structural control of mineralization at Lik, and the potential trend of mineralization to the north. Geochemical sampling indicates an area of elevated geochemistry to the north that could be proximal to zinc mineralization. The gravity survey results are somewhat uncertain, but may point to an area of interest, also to the north. The stratigraphic and structural reinterpretation in the vicinity of the Lik deposit suggests the potential for stacked deposits below the Lik deposit.
7. Mineralization
The Lik deposit is a black shale-hosted stratiform zinc-lead-silver sedimentary-exhalitive (SEDEX) deposit. Mineralization is syngenetic with respect to sediment deposition. Silicification occurs within and peripheral to the main mass of sulfides. Major sulfides in decreasing order of abundance are pyrite-marcasite, sphalerite and galena. The ore textures are massive, fragmental, chaotic, and veined; they rarely show typical sedimentary layering. The portion of the ore body near the surface is oxidized. The deposit is continuous outside the Lik property onto the adjacent 100%-owned Teck property to the south. The southern continuation of the Lik deposit is referred to as the Su deposit, lying on Teck’s Su property.
Within the Lik property, the deposit is divided into two parts by the Main Break Fault. The main part of the deposit within the existing claims is referred to as the Lik South deposit. As presently tested, the Lik South deposit has a surface footprint of about 3,600 feet long and about 2,000 feet wide. It has been tested down dip to a depth of about 650 feet. The Lik South deposit remains open down dip. North of the Main Break Fault, the Lik North deposit has a surface footprint of about 2,300 feet long and about 1,150 feet wide. It has been tested down dip to a depth of about 1,000 feet. The Lik North deposit remains strongly open down dip and to the north.
The deposits strike northerly and dip westerly at about 25o to 40o. The mineralization comprises irregular, stratiform lenses. The mineralogy of the sulfides is simple and comprises pyrite, marcasite, sphalerite, and galena. Gangue minerals include quartz (as chert), clay minerals, carbonate and barite. Noranda recognized six different ore types in its logging of drill core. Typical grades of mineralized intersections within the Lik deposit are listed in the table below:
Previous work by GCO determined that sulfides were deposited in four distinct cycles. Individual cycles may be quite thin near the margins of the deposit and the thickest accumulation in a single cycle noted to date is about 45 feet thick. The base of a sulfide cycle begins abruptly with the deposition of sphalerite, galena and pyrite. Typically, the highest grades are found at or within 5-10 feet of the base of a sulfide cycle. In the central portion of the deposit several cycles are stacked and comprise a cumulative thickness of up to 100 feet of mineralization.
8. Drilling
All diamond drill programs are summarized in the following table.
Zazu completed two diamond drilling programs during the 2007 and 2008 to further test the Lik South deposit and to obtain samples for metallurgical testing. At the end of 2008, most of the Lik South deposit had been tested on lines spaced at 200 ft. with holes spaced at about 100 ft.
The 2011 drilling program at Lik combined exploration and development drilling. The exploration drilling focused on improving resource definition, in particular near the transition zone between Lik South and Lik North and also Lik North. The development drilling focused on obtaining additional metallurgical samples and geotechnical drilling for the open pit design and foundation information to assist in infrastructure design. By the end of 2011, a total of approximately 38,328 meters (125,700 feet) of drilling in 229 holes had been completed on the Lik property by the Company (Zazu) and the previous owners. No drilling has been completed on the Lik project since 2011.
9. Sampling, Analysis and Security of Samples
Pre-Zazu Drilling
Core recoveries were typically high within the massive sulfides, but lower, more variable recoveries were obtained in the unmineralized and weakly mineralized sections. The entire core obtained from the Lik deposit, usually NQ-size, was logged on site. All of the core containing sulfide mineralization was cut using diamond saws and half of the core was sent for assay. Reference samples were not included in the sample stream. Sample lengths in massive sulfides were typically from two to three feet, but occasionally up to nine feet. Sample lengths were probably controlled by geology and the location of depth markers in the core boxes.
Most of the samples were assayed by Bondar Clegg Laboratory Group (“Bondar Clegg”) of Vancouver. At various times, the laboratory-maintained preparation facilities in Anchorage and Fairbanks Alaska. In the initial years, when the bulk of the drilling was completed, it is believed that sample preparation and analysis were carried out in Vancouver. Bondar Clegg was not a registered laboratory at that time. However, Bondar Clegg was a recognized, reputable laboratory and was experienced in the use of atomic absorption spectrophotometry.
As the entire core was logged and sampled in an isolated field camp, security was not a major concern because access to the camp was closely controlled. It is noted that four different companies (WGM, GCO, Noranda and Moneta) have completed drilling programs at the Lik property and all of them have obtained consistent results. The work was considered completed to industry standards in use at the time of the work. Sample preparation was completed in the assay laboratory.
Zazu Drilling
Drill core obtained during the 2007, 2008 and 2011 drilling campaigns was logged on site. The entire core containing sulfide mineralization was sawn using diamond saws and half of the core was sent for assay. All massive and high-sulfide cores were sampled. Visual methods were used to select sample boundaries and lengths. The mineralization at Lik is considered to be appropriately logged and sampled. It is not evident that logging or sampling is leading to any bias in the sample results. An examination of logging showed that core recovery in sulfide areas was generally very high.
Core drilled in 2007 was placed in the sample bags, the air was evacuated and replaced with nitrogen. The samples were sent to Kotzebue by charter and then by licensed carrier to Anchorage. The samples were stored under refrigeration in Anchorage. The samples were dispatched to G & T Metallurgical Services Ltd. (“G & T”) of Kamloops, British Columbia, an ISO 9001:2000 certified laboratory for precious metals and base metals. As well as completing metallurgical testing, G & T crushed and analyzed the samples. The 2008 diamond drill core was not required for metallurgical testing and core was handled normally. Sawn samples were securely bagged and boxed on site and dispatched to a facility of ALS Laboratory Group (“ALS Chemex”) located in Fairbanks, Alaska, for sample preparation. Transportation of the samples was through third-party companies that provided secure transportation services. The pulps were analyzed at ALS Chemex located in Fairbanks or Elko, Nevada. Zazu did not participate in any part of the sample preparation or analysis except for cutting core.
Check samples from the 2007 drilling program and all samples from the 2008 drilling campaign were sent to the preparation and assaying facilities of ALS Chemex (ISO 17025 accreditation). Other QA/QC procedures employed by Zazu included the use of blanks (unmineralized core from outside of the mineralized zone) and quartered core duplicates. Zazu was unable to obtain acceptable reference samples for the 2007 field season and reference samples were not included as part of the 2007 ongoing QA/QC program. Reproducibility between G & T and ALS Chemex was found to be good. A detailed description of QA/QC procedures can be found in the Solitario’s Canadian SEDAR filings and in the Company’s US Edgar filings: Technical Report; Zazu Metals Corporation, Lik Deposit, Alaska, USA; Report Date: April 23, 2014; Effective Date: March 3, 2014; prepared by JDS Energy and Mining Inc (“JDS”).
.
10. Prefeasibility Studies
Zazu completed a PEA in 2014 that incorporated a variety of prefeasibility level studies into the analysis. These studies included resource estimation, mining and processing recovery estimates, a preliminary mining and processing plan, infrastructure layout, environmental considerations and an economic analysis based on the base case parameters. The PEA envisioned an open pit mining operation with a 5,500 ton per day floatation mill for processing resulting in a nine-year mine life. Concentrates would be handled through the DMTS road and port system that currently handles all concentrate produced by the nearby Red Dog zinc mine of Teck. A summary of metallurgical testing and mineral processing is provided below. The PEA analyzed the Lik project as a stand-alone operation building its own independent processing, tailings and port facilities.
Zazu engaged JDS to complete the PEA on the Lik deposit in 2013. The NI 43-101 compliant study entitled: “Technical Report; Zazu Metals Corporation, Lik Deposit, Alaska, USA; Report Date: April 23, 2014; Effective Date: March 3, 2014;” can be found in the Company’s Canadian Sedar filings and is furnished in the Company’s U.S. Edgar filings. JDS is a Canadian independent and internationally recognized mining engineering firm providing engineering services internationally.
Metallurgical Testing and Mineral Processing
There have been five metallurgical test work reports issued to date on the Lik ores. The most recent and comprehensive processing and metallurgical testing programs include work performed by G&T and by SGS. Samples collected during drilling in 2007 and 2008 were composited into one Master Composite for testing at G&T in 2008, and later testing by SGS was carried out in 2010 on the remainder of the Master Composite. These key testing results have formed the basis for this economic evaluation of the Lik deposit. Results are summarized in the table below:
Summary of SGS 2010 and G&T 2008 Metallurgical Test Results
The metallurgical flowsheet for this PEA includes conventional crushing, grinding, and flotation processing methods. Run-of-Mine (ROM) ore will be delivered to a primary crushing plant and stored in a coarse ore stockpile awaiting reclaim into the grinding circuit. Crusher ore will be reclaimed and delivered to a two-stage grinding circuit equipped with a Semi-Autogenous Grinding (SAG) mill and a ball mill in closed circuit with cyclones.
Recoveries from these modeled methods and metallurgical testing conducted to date are anticipated to be 85% of zinc to the zinc concentrate and 69.7% of the lead to the lead concentrate. Silver is also recovered and payable at times in the zinc concentrate and more significantly in the lead concentrate.
11. Reserves
There are no reported mineral reserves.
12. Mining Operations
No commercial mining operations to recover metals have occurred on the project.
13. Planned Exploration and Development
Solitario and Teck are in discussions to jointly fund a 2020 exploration program with Teck acting as project operator. The program, if approved, consists of drilling two or three core holes totaling approximately 1,000 meters. Drill targets under consideration include an area approximately one kilometer north of Lik and also below the Lik deposit to test for stacked mineralized horizons. Drilling is expected to begin during the 2020 summer field season. We expect to reach a final decision on this program during the first quarter of 2020.
Chambara Zinc Property (Peru)
In April 2008, we signed the Minera Chambara shareholders’ agreement with Votorantim on Solitario's 100%-owned Chambara zinc project. In 2015 Votorantim transferred its interest in the Chambara project to Milpo, now Nexa. In October of 2017, Milpo and Votorantim merged to form Nexa. For the remainder of this Chambara property section, all references to Votorantim, Milpo or Nexa are collectively referred to as “Nexa.”
The original purpose of the Chambara joint venture was to collectively pool independently owned Solitario
and Nexa properties into a jointly held joint venture. These properties were located within a large area of interest in northern Peru measuring approximately 200 by 85 kilometers, but outside of the Florida Canyon property position. Nexa originally contributed 52 mineral concessions within the area of interest totaling 52,000 hectares to Minera Chambara for a 15% interest in Minera Chambara. We contributed 9,600 hectares of mineral claims and an extensive exploration data base in our possession for an 85% interest in Minera Chambara. Existing and future acquired properties subject to the terms of the shareholders’ agreement will be controlled by Minera Chambara. Minera Chambara dropped selected concessions in 2013 and 2016 and acquired the rights to 13 new concessions totaling 11,600 hectares in 2017. This resulted in Minera Chambara holding 36,400 hectares of valid concessions that completely surround the Florida Canyon project area held by Minera Bongará. As of December 31, 2019, Minera Chambara’s only assets are the properties and Minera Chambara has no debt. Nexa may increase its shareholding interest to 49% through cumulative spending of $6,250,000 and may further increase its interest to 70% by funding a feasibility study and providing for construction financing for Solitario's interest. If Nexa provides such construction financing, we would repay that financing, including interest, from 80% of Solitario's portion of the project cash flow.
The project has been on care and maintenance in recent years. Significant geochemical anomalies and outcropping mineralization have been identified at several locations on the Chambara property. Nexa is responsible for maintaining the property in good standing and making all concession payments to the Peruvian government. Concession costs in 2020 to be paid by Nexa are estimated to be $527,000.
La Promesa Project (Peru)
The La Promesa property, acquired in 2008, consists of three concessions totaling 2,600 hectares. Currently, our only holding costs for the mineral rights are annual payments of nine dollars per hectare to the Peruvian government. Total holding costs in 2020 will be approximately $34,000. A subsidiary of Newmont holds a 2% net smelter return (“NSR”) on the property.
During the past several years Solitario has conducted an active social engagement program with the community located near the La Promesa project area with the objective of obtaining a community agreement to support exploration activities, including drilling. To date, no agreement has been signed and we are planning to conduct limited exploration activities on the property in 2020. In Peru, a community agreement is required in order to obtain drilling permits. During 2020 our objectives are to complete an agreement with the local community, to conduct surface exploration, and if warranted, conduct a drilling program.
At least five high-grade polymetallic veins have been identified and sampled at surface. Two of the veins, about 300 meters apart, have been traced for at least 400 meters along strike. There appears to be a systematic trend towards greater vein thickness with depth, as the widest observed vein in outcrop occurs at the lowest elevation sampled to date. Channel sampling along 300 meters of strike length from the best exposed vein yielded the following high-grade results:
Discontinued Projects
We did not abandon any mineral properties during 2018 or 2019.
GLOSSARY OF MINING TERMS
“Allochthonous” means originating in a place other than a place where it was formed.
“Assay” means to test minerals by chemical or other methods for the purpose of determining the amount of valuable metals contained.
“Anticline” means folds in which each half of the fold dips away front the crest.
“Breccia” means rock consisting of fragments, more or less angular, in a matrix of finer-grained material or of cementing material.
“Carbonaceous” means a compound relating to or containing carbon.
“Chert” means a sedimentary rock of microcrystalline quartz (the mineral form Silicon dioxide - SiO2).
“Claim” or “Concession” means a mining interest giving its holder the right to prospect, explore for and exploit minerals within a defined area.
“Clastic” means pertaining to rock or rocks composed of fragments or particles of older rocks or previously existing solid matter; fragmental.
“Deposit” means an informal term for an accumulation of mineral ores.
“Development” means work carried out for the purpose of opening up a mineral deposit and making the actual ore extraction possible.
“Domal” means of a dome shape.
“Dolomite” means calcium magnesium carbonate, CaMg (CO3)2, occurring in crystals and in masses.
“Facies” means the appearance and characteristics of a sedimentary deposit, especially as they reflect the conditions and environment of deposition and serve to distinguish the deposit from contiguous deposits.
“Fault” means a fracture in rock along which there has been displacement of the two sides parallel to the fracture.
“Galena” means a bluish gray or black mineral of metallic appearance, generally the chief ore of lead sulfide.
“gpt” means grams per tonne.
“Karst” means a landscape that is characterized by the features of solution weathering and erosion in the subsurface. These features include caves, sinkholes, disappearing streams, subsurface drainage and deeply incised narrow canyons.
“Manto deposits” means replacement ore bodies that are strata bound, irregular to rod shaped ore occurrences usually horizontal or near horizontal in attitude.
“Metallurgy” means the domain of materials science and engineering that studies the physical and chemical behavior of metallic elements and their inter-metallic compounds, alloys.
“Mineralization” means the concentration of metals within a body of rock.
“NSR” means net smelter return royalty.
“opt” or “oz/ton” means ounces per ton.
“Ore” means material containing minerals that can be economically extracted.
“Ounce” means a troy ounce.
“Oxide” means a mineral class in which the chemical compound that typically contains an 0 -2 oxygen atom in its chemical formula.
“Pyrite” means a compound of iron sulfide (FeSO2) commonly found in mineral rich areas.
“Reserves” or “Ore Reserves” means that part of a mineral deposit, which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination.
“Sampling” means selecting a fractional, but representative, part of a mineral deposit for analysis.
“Shale” means a fine-grained sedimentary rock that forms from the compaction of silt and clay commonly referred to as mud.
“Sediment” means solid material settled from suspension in a liquid.
“Sedimentary Exhalative Deposits (SEDEX)” means ore deposits which have been formed by the release of ore-bearing hydrothermal fluids into a water reservoir.
“Silicification” means the process in which organic matter becomes saturated with silica (silicon dioxide).
“Sphalerite” means a very common mineral, zinc sulfide, usually containing some iron and a little cadmium, occurring in yellow, brown, or black crystals or cleavable masses with resinous luster and it is the principal ore of zinc.
“Spectrophotometry” means the quantitative measurement of the reflection properties of a material as a function of its wavelength.
“Stratiform” means formed parallel to the bedding places of surrounding rock.
“Stratigraphy” means the arrangement of rock strata, especially as to the geographic, chronologic order of sequence (age), classification, characteristics and formation.
“Strike” when used as a noun, means the direction, course or bearing of a vein or rock formation measured on a level surface and, when used as a verb, means to take such direction, course or bearing.
“Sulfide” means a compound of sulfur and some other element.
“Syngenetic” means a mineral deposit that forms at the same time as the surrounding rock.
“Ton” means a short ton (2,000 pounds).
“Tonne” means a metric measure that contains 2,204.6 pounds or 1,000 kilograms.
“Vein” means a fissure, fault or crack in a rock filled by minerals that have traveled upwards from some deep source.
Item 3.