ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
OFFICE PROPERTIES
The Company's Office Properties are located primarily in Dallas/Fort Worth and Houston, Texas. As of March 25, 1998, the Company's Office Properties in Dallas/Fort Worth and Houston represent an aggregate of approximately 72% of its office portfolio based on total net rentable square feet (40% and 32% for Dallas/Fort Worth and Houston, respectively).
OFFICE PROPERTIES TABLES
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1997, certain information about the Company's Office Properties after giving effect to the acquisitions of Properties completed after December 31, 1997. Based on annualized base rental revenues from office leases in place as of December 31, 1997 and after giving effect to the acquisitions of Properties completed after December 31, 1997, no single tenant would have accounted for more than 4% of the Company's total annualized Office Property rental revenues for 1997.
- ---------------------------
(1) Calculated based on base rent payable as of December 31, 1997, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under generally accepted accounting principles and including adjustments for expenses payable by or reimbursable from tenants. (2) Property was contributed to the Operating Partnership on May 5, 1994. (3) The Company has a 50% general partner interest in the partnership that owns Bank One Center. (4) The Company owns the principal economic interest in Trammell Crow Center through its ownership of fee simple title to the Property (subject to a ground lease and a leasehold estate regarding the building) and two mortgage notes encumbering the leasehold interests in the land and building. (5) The Company owns the principal economic interest in Spectrum Center through an interest in Spectrum Mortgage Associates L.P., which owns both a mortgage note secured by Spectrum Center and the ground lessor's interest in the land underlying the office building. (6) Leases have been executed at certain Office Properties but had not commenced as of December 31, 1997. If such leases had commenced as of December 31, 1997, the percent leased for Office Properties would have been 92%. The total percent leased for such Properties would have been as follows: 3333 Lee Parkway -- 98%; Continental Plaza -- 100%; Austin Centre -- 98%; The Avallon -- 100%; Ptarmigan Place -- 99%; 1615 Poydras -- 80%; Albuquerque Plaza -- 96% and 160 Spear Street -- 91%. (7) Consists of ten Office Properties. (8) Consists of three Office Properties. (9) Acquired subsequent to December 31, 1997. (10) The Company has a 75% limited partner interest and an indirect approximately 10% general partner interest in the partnership that owns the 12 Office Properties that comprise The Woodlands Office Properties. (11) Two of The Woodlands Office Properties were acquired July 31, 1996. (12) The Company owns the principal economic interest in Three Westlake Park through its ownership of a mortgage note secured by Three Westlake Park. (13) The Company has a 1% general partner and a 49% limited partner interest in the partnership that owns 301 Congress Avenue. (14) In August 1997, construction was completed on a 106,342 square foot office property. The entire building is leased to BMC Software, Inc., which is expected to occupy in stages over the next 19 months. (15) Consists of two Office Properties. (16) The Company owns Chancellor Park through its ownership of a mortgage note secured by the building and through its direct and indirect interests in the partnership which owns the building.
The following table provides information, as of December 31, 1997, for the Company's Office Properties by state, city, and submarket after giving effect to the acquisitions of Properties completed after December 31, 1997 as if they had been completed as of December 31, 1997.
- -------------------- (1) NRA means net rentable area in square feet. (2) Market information is for Class A office space under the caption "Class A Office Properties" and market information is for Class B office space under the caption "Class B Office Properties." Sources are Jamison Research, Inc. (for the Dallas CBD, Uptown/Turtle Creek, Far North Dallas, Las Colinas, Richardson/Plano, Stemmons Freeway, LBJ Freeway and Central Expressway, Fort Worth CBD and the New Orleans CBD submarkets), Baca Landata, Inc. (for the Houston Richmond-Buffalo Speedway, CBD and West Loop/Galleria submarkets), The Woodlands Operating Company, L.P. (for the Houston The Woodlands submarket), Cushman & Wakefield of Texas, Inc. (for the Houston Katy Freeway submarket), CB Commercial (for the Austin CBD, Northwest and Southwest submarkets), Cushman & Wakefield of Colorado, Inc. (for the Denver Cherry Creek, CBD and DTC submarkets), Turner Commercial Research (for the Colorado Springs market), Grubb and Ellis Company (for the Phoenix Downtown/CBD, Camelback Corridor and San Francisco South of Market/CBD submarkets), Jones Lang Wootton (for the Washington D.C. Georgetown submarket) Pacific Realty Group, Inc. (for the Omaha CBD submarket), Building Interests, Inc. (for the Albuquerque CBD submarket), Real Data Information Systems, Inc. (for the Miami CBD submarket) and John Burnham & Co. (for the San Diego UTC submarket). (3) Represents full-service quoted market rental rates. These rates do not necessarily represent the amounts at which available space at the Office Properties will be leased. The weighted average subtotals and total are based on total net rentable square feet of Company Office Properties in the submarket. (4) For Office Properties, represents weighted average rental rates per square foot quoted by the Company as of December 31, 1997, based on total net rentable square feet of Company Office Properties in the submarket, adjusted, if necessary, based on management estimates, to equivalent full-service quoted rental rates to facilitate comparison to weighted average Class A or Class B, as the case may be, quoted submarket rental rates per square foot. For Office Properties acquired subsequent to December 31, 1997, represents weighted average full-service quoted market rental rates per square foot. These rates do not necessarily represent the amounts at which available space at the Company Office Properties will be leased. (5) Calculated based on base rent payable for Company Office Properties and Properties acquired subsequent to December 31, 1997 in the submarket as of December 31, 1997, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under generally accepted accounting principles and including adjustments for expenses payable by tenants, divided by total net rentable square feet of Company Office Properties in the submarket. (6) Leases have been executed at certain Properties in these submarkets but had not commenced as of December 31, 1997. If such leases had commenced as of December 31, 1997, the percent leased for all Office Properties in the Company's submarkets would have been 92%. The total percent leased at the Company's Office Properties would have been as follows: Dallas Uptown/Turtle Creek -- 98%; Fort Worth CBD -- 100%; Austin CBD -- 92%; Austin Northwest -- 100%; Denver Cherry Creek -- 94%; New Orleans CBD -- 79%; Albuquerque CBD -- 96%; and San Francisco South of Market/CBD -- 91%. (7) Includes three properties acquired in the Houston West Loop/Galleria submarket, one property acquired in the Austin CBD submarket, and two properties acquired in the Washington D.C. Georgetown submarket subsequent to December 31, 1997. (8) Represents weighted average quoted market triple-net rental rates per square foot, adjusted based on management estimates, to equivalent full-service quoted market rental rates.
The following table sets forth, as of December 31, 1997, the principal businesses conducted by the tenants at the Company's Office Properties, based on information supplied to the Company from the tenants, after giving effect to the acquisitions of Properties completed after December 31, 1997.
- ----------------------
(1) Includes legal, accounting, engineering, architectural, and advertising services. (2) Includes banking, title and insurance and investment services. (3) Includes construction, real estate, transportation and other industries.
MARKET INFORMATION
Management believes that its Office Properties reflect the Company's strategy to invest in premier assets within markets that have significant potential for rental growth. The Company has analyzed demographic and economic data to focus on markets it expects to benefit from significant internal employment growth as well as corporate relocations. After identifying and analyzing attractive regional markets, the Company selects submarkets which the Company believes will be the major beneficiaries of this projected growth. Management believes that the most attractive submarkets for office investment are those that integrate a premier office environment with quality of life features including: affordable residential housing; an environment generally well protected from crime; effective transportation systems; a significant concentration of retailing alternatives; and cultural centers, entertainment attractions and recreational facilities. Other factors considered by the Company in selecting the submarkets include proximity to major airports and the relative aggressiveness of local governments providing tax and other incentives designed to favor business.
Within these submarkets, the Company has focused on premier properties that management believes are able to attract and retain the highest quality tenants and command premium rents. In addition, several of the Properties benefit from significant "over-improvement" (improvements beyond what currently could be justified by expected economic returns) made by prior owners or developers. These over-improvements, which should not materially increase the future operating cost of the Properties, include various amenities, use of expensive materials, and extensive landscaping. Such premier properties also tend to be more stable in downward property cycles. Consistent with its investment strategies, the Company seeks situations where it can acquire properties that have strong economic returns based on in-place tenancy and have a dominant position within the submarket due to quality and/or location. Accordingly, management's investment strategy not only demands acceptable current cash flow return on invested capital, but also considers long-term cash flow growth prospects.
The demographic conditions, economic conditions and trends (population growth and employment growth) favoring the markets in which the Company has invested are projected to continue to be at or above the national average, as illustrated in the following table.
Projected Population Growth and Employment Growth for all Company Markets
- -------------------------- Source: Cognetics, Inc.
AGGREGATE LEASE EXPIRATIONS OF OFFICE PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth a schedule of lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 1997 at the Company's Office Properties, including six Office Properties acquired subsequent to December 31, 1997, for each of the ten years beginning with 1998, assuming that none of the tenants exercises renewal options and excluding an aggregate 3,991,391 square feet of unleased space.
- --------------------------
(1) Calculated based on base rent payable as of the expiration date of the lease for net rentable square feet expiring, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under generally accepted accounting principles and including adjustments for expenses payable by or reimbursable from tenants based on current levels.
BEHAVIORAL HEALTHCARE PROPERTIES
BEHAVIORAL HEALTHCARE LEASES
On June 17, 1997, the Company acquired substantially all of the real estate assets of the domestic hospital provider business of Magellan, as previously owned and operated by a wholly owned subsidiary of Magellan. The transaction involved various components, the principal component of which was the acquisition of the 90 Behavioral Healthcare Facilities (and two additional behavioral healthcare facilities which subsequently were sold) for approximately $387.2 million. The Behavioral Healthcare Facilities, which are located in 27 states, are leased to CBHS, and its subsidiaries under a triple-net lease. CBHS is a Delaware limited liability company, formed to operate the Behavioral Healthcare Facilities, owned 50% by a subsidiary of Magellan and 50% by COI. The lease requires the payment of annual minimum rent in the amount of approximately $41.7 million for the period ending June 16, 1998, increasing in each subsequent year during the 12- year term at a 5% compounded annual rate. All maintenance and capital improvement costs are the responsibility of CBHS during the term of the lease. In addition, the obligation of CBHS, pursuant to a franchise agreement, to pay an approximately $78.2 million franchise fee to Magellan and one of its subsidiaries, as franchisor, is subordinated to the obligation of CBHS to pay annual minimum rent to the Company. The franchisor does not have the right to terminate the franchise agreement due to any nonpayment of the franchise fee as a result of the subordination of the franchise fee to the annual minimum rent. The lease is designed to provide the Company with a secure, above-average return on its investment as a result of the priority of annual minimum rent to the franchise fee and the initial amount and annual escalation in the lease payments.
On March 5, 1998, COI entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Magellan's 50% interest in CBHS in exchange for $30 million in common stock of COI. In a related transaction, CBHS executed a definitive agreement to purchase from Magellan, for approximately $280 million, certain assets and intellectual property rights used by Magellan to supply franchise services to CBHS. The agreement provides for the elimination of the franchise fee that is payable by CBHS to Magellan. The transactions are subject to a number of conditions, including customary closing conditions, a condition that CBHS obtain funds sufficient to finance the purchase and certain regulatory conditions. The transactions, as structured will not affect the arrangements pursuant to which CBHS leases the Behavioral Healthcare Facilities from the Company.
BEHAVIORAL HEALTHCARE FACILITIES TABLE
The following chart sets forth the locations of the 90 Behavioral Healthcare Facilities by state:
The Behavioral Healthcare Facilities are located in well-populated urban and suburban locations. Most of the Behavioral Healthcare Facilities offer a full continuum of behavioral care in their service area, including inpatient hospitalization, partial hospitalization, intensive outpatient services and, in some markets, residential treatment services. The Behavioral Healthcare Facilities provide structured and intensive treatment programs for mental health and alcohol and drug dependency disorders in children, adolescents and adults. A significant portion of admissions are provided by referrals from former patients, local marketplace advertising, managed care organizations and physicians. The Behavioral Healthcare Facilities work closely with mental health professionals, non-psychiatric physicians, emergency rooms and community agencies that come in contact with individuals who may need treatment for mental illness or substance abuse.
The Behavioral Healthcare Facilities in the past have been, and in the future may be, adversely affected by factors influencing the entire psychiatric hospital industry. The industry is subject to governmental regulation in various respects. Factors which may affect the operations and successful results of operations of the Behavioral Healthcare Facilities include (i) the imposition of more stringent length of stay and admission criteria by payers; (ii) the failure of reimbursement rates received from certain payers that reimburse on a per diem or other discounted basis to offset increases in the cost of providing services; (iii) an increase in the percentage of business that the Behavioral Healthcare Facilities derive from payers that reimburse on a per diem or other discounted basis; (iv) a trend toward higher deductibles and co-insurance for individual patients; and (v) pricing pressure related to increasing rate of claims denials by third party payers. In addition to these regulations, the recently adopted National Mental Health Parity Act of 1997 potentially benefits the industry by imposing an obligation for health insurance issuers and group health plans to place mental health benefits on equal footing with all other medical benefits. Title I of this Act amends the Code to impose on an issuer or group health plan a tax equal to 25% of a health plan's premiums received during the calendar year if the plan imposes limitations or financial requirements on the coverage of benefits relating to certain mental health conditions unless similar limitations or requirements also are imposed on coverage of benefits with respect to conditions other than mental health.
INDUSTRY INFORMATION
In an era of cost-containment and the reduction of dollars available for care, behavioral health providers have focused attention on developing treatment approaches that respond to payers' increasing demands for shorter stays, lower costs, and expanded access to care. Changes in the mix of services, the prices of services, and the intensity of service are all part of this response. These changes have also been bolstered by a rapidly expanding science base, improved medications management, and the growing availability of non-hospital treatment settings in more and more communities that help to make it possible to manage complex and severe illnesses in less intensive treatment settings. One of the effects that the behavioral healthcare industry is experiencing is an increasing percentage of non-inpatient care. According to the National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems 1997 Annual Survey Report, nearly one in four admissions in 1996 was to a service other than inpatient hospitalization, compared to just one in ten admissions in 1992. Although non-inpatient services are rapidly growing, total inpatient admissions have increased also. In general, inpatient and non-inpatient admissions are increasing, but average length of stay and care costs are decreasing.
Due to these changes in the behavioral healthcare industry, a hospital's position relative to its competitors has been affected by its ability to obtain contracts with HMOs, PPOs and other managed care plans for the provision of health care services. Although such contracts generally provide for discounted services, pre-admission certification and concurrent length of stay reviews, they also provide a strong patient referral base. The importance of entering into contracts with HMOs, PPOs and other managed care companies varies from market to market and depends upon the market strength of the particular managed care company.
Source: National Association of Psychiatric Health Systems 1997 Annual Survey Report
HOTEL PROPERTIES
HOTEL LEASES
Because of the Company's status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, it does not operate the Hotel Properties directly. The Company has leased the Hotel Properties to subsidiaries of COI (collectively, the "Hotel Lessees") pursuant to nine separate leases. Under the leases, each having a term of 10 years, the Hotel Lessees have assumed the rights and obligations of the property owner under the respective management agreement with the hotel operators, as well as the obligation to pay all property taxes and other charges against the property. As part of each of the lease agreements for eight of the Hotel Properties, the Company has agreed to fund all capital expenditures relating to furniture, fixtures and equipment reserves required under the applicable management agreements. The only exception is Canyon Ranch-Tucson, in which the hotel lessee owns all furniture, fixtures and equipment associated with the property and will fund all related capital expenditures. Each of the leases provides for the payment by the lessee of the Hotel Property of (i) base rent, with periodic rent increases, (ii) percentage rent based on a percentage of gross hotel receipts or gross room revenues, as applicable, above a specified amount, and (iii) a percentage of gross food and beverage revenues above a specified amount for certain Hotel Properties.
HOTEL PROPERTIES TABLES
The following table sets forth certain information for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, about the Company's Hotel Properties, including the Hotel Property that the Company acquired after December 31, 1997. The information for the Hotel Properties is based on available rooms, except for Canyon Ranch-Tucson and Canyon Ranch-Lenox, which are destination health and fitness resorts that measure their performance based on available guest nights.
- ----------------------------
(1) Because of the Company's status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, it does not operate the Hotel Properties and has leased the Hotel Properties to subsidiaries of COI pursuant to long-term leases. (2) Acquired subsequent to December 31, 1997. (3) Includes, for the period from July 1, 1997 through December 31, 1997, 30 additional rooms completed in July 1997. (4) Represents available guest nights, which is the maximum number of guests that the resort can accommodate per night. (5) Represents the number of paying and complimentary guests for the period, divided by the maximum number of available guest nights for the period. (6) Represents the average daily "all-inclusive" guest package charges for the period, divided by the average daily number of paying guests for the period. (7) Represents the total "all-inclusive" guest package charges for the period, divided by the maximum number of available guest nights for the period.
The following table sets forth average occupancy rate, average daily rate ("ADR"), and revenue per available room ("REVPAR") for the Company's Hotel Properties, including the Hotel Property that the Company acquired after December 31, 1997, by full-service/luxury hotels and destination health and fitness resorts for each of the years ended December 31, 1993 through 1997. The information for the Hotel Properties is based on available rooms, except for Canyon Ranch-Tuscon and Canyon Ranch-Lenox, which are destination health and fitness resorts, that measure performance based on available guest nights and calculate average occupancy rate, ADR and REVPAR as described in the footnotes to the preceding table.
HOTEL MARKET INFORMATION
The U.S. hotel industry is experiencing a resurgence in profitability from its downturn in the early 1990's. Increased demand for luxury and destination resort hotel rooms has been met with very limited increase in the supply of such rooms, resulting in increasing occupancies and room rates. According to Smith Travel Research, average occupancies for hotel rooms rose from 62.7% in 1992 to 64.6% in 1997. Average hotel room rental rates grew 6.1%, 6.3%, and 4.9%, in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. Within the luxury and upscale segments of the industry, average occupancy increased approximately 7.4% and 2.9%, respectively, between 1992 and 1997, while average room rental rates increased approximately 32.0% and 25.0%, respectively, during the same period.
Business and convention travel accounts for about two-thirds of room demand and has risen along with the improving economy and increased corporate profits. Domestic leisure travel has also increased, especially among the "baby boomers" who are not only at the prime age for leisure travel but also have a greater tendency to travel than previous generations. A healthier, more active senior population is also contributing to the increase in travel.
With the aging of the "baby boomer" generation and the growing interest in quality of life activities, the resort/spa industry also is experiencing significant growth in the United States.
The average annual growth rates in REVPAR, from 1992 through 1997, for the upscale and luxury hotel segments were 5.2% and 7.2%, respectively, according to Smith Travel Research. This demand comes not only from the business and convention sector, but also from the leisure traveler who vacations increasingly at higher-end hotels.
The following table sets forth hotel REVPAR by price segment for the years 1992 through 1997.
- ----------------- (1) Includes destination health and fitness resorts such as the Canyon Ranch resorts. (2) Includes full-service and limited-service hotels. Source: Smith Travel Research
REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSE PROPERTIES
On October 31, 1997, the Company, through the Crescent Subsidiaries, initially acquired a 40% interest in each of two partnerships one of which owns Americold and one of which owns URS. Vornado acquired the remaining 60% interest in the partnerships. The Refrigerated Warehouse Companies are the two largest suppliers of refrigerated warehouse space in the United States.
One of the partnerships acquired all of the common stock of Americold through the merger of a subsidiary of Vornado into Americold, and the other partnership acquired all of the common stock of URS through the merger of a separate subsidiary of Vornado into URS. As a result of the acquisition, the Americold partnership and the URS partnership became the owners and operators of approximately 80 refrigerated warehouses, with an aggregate of approximately 394 million cubic feet, that are operated pursuant to arrangements with national food suppliers.
On December 30, 1997 and effective October 31, 1997, in order to permit the Company to continue to satisfy certain REIT qualification requirements, the Company sold all of the voting common stock, representing a 5% economic interest, in each of the Crescent Subsidiaries to COI. As a result, the Company currently owns a 38% interest in each of the Americold partnership and URS partnership, through its ownership of all of the nonvoting common stock, representing a 95% economic interest, in each of the Crescent Subsidiaries.
Under the terms of the existing partnership agreements for each of the partnerships, Vornado has the right to make all decisions relating to the management and operation of the partnerships other than certain major decisions that require the approval of both the Company and Vornado. The partnership agreement for each of the partnerships provides for a buy-sell arrangement upon a failure of the Company and Vornado to agree on any of the specified major decisions which, until November 1, 2000, can be exercised only by Vornado. Major decisions include approval of the annual capital and operating budgets for each partnership, decisions to deviate from the budgets by 10% or more and additional capital contributions. If the Company and Vornado fail to reach agreement on any of the specified major decisions prior to November 1, 2000, Vornado may purchase the Company's interest at cost (less distributions) plus a 10% per annum return. During the seven years thereafter, Vornado may set a price for the buy-sell arrangement, and the Company then may elect either to sell its interest to Vornado, or to purchase Vornado's interest, at the designated price. After October 31, 2007, either the Company or Vornado may set a price for the buy-sell arrangement, and the party who did not set the price may elect either to sell its interest to the other party, or to purchase the other party's interest, at the designated price. The exercise of the buy-sell arrangement in one partnership requires the purchaser under the arrangement to purchase the interest of the selling party in the other partnership on the same terms.
The parties have not yet determined certain matters relating to the future ownership structure and operations of Americold and URS, including the identification and division of the assets that will continue to be owned by one of the partnerships and those that may be owned by one or more other entities formed to conduct the business operations currently conducted by Americold and URS, and the nature and terms of any lease that may be entered into between the operating entity and the owner of the warehouses.
SERVICES
The Refrigerated Warehouse Companies provide frozen food manufacturers with refrigerated warehousing and transportation management services. Refrigerated warehouses consist of production and distribution facilities. Production facilities differ from distribution facilities in that they typically serve one or a small number of customers located nearby. These customers store large quantities of processed or partially processed products in the facility until they are further processed or shipped to the next stage of production or distribution. Distribution facilities primarily serve customers who store a wide variety of finished products to support shipment to end-users, such as food retailers and food service companies, in a specific geographic market.
Transportation management services offered include freight routing, dispatching, freight rate negotiation, backhaul coordination, freight bill auditing, network flow management, order consolidation and distribution channel assessment. The Refrigerated Warehouse Companies' temperature-controlled logistics expertise and access to both frozen food warehouses and distribution channels enable its customers to respond quickly and efficiently to time- sensitive orders from distributors and retailers.
CUSTOMERS
Customers consist primarily of national, regional and local frozen food manufacturers, distributors, retailers and food service organizations including Con-Agra, Inc., H.J. Heinz & Co., Kraft Foods and Tyson Foods.
REFRIGERATED WAREHOUSE PROPERTIES TABLE
The following table shows the location and size of facility for each of the Refrigerated Warehouse Properties as of December 31, 1997:
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
The Company owns economic interests in five Residential Development Corporations through the Residential Development Property Mortgages relating to and the non-voting common stock in these Residential Development Corporations. The Residential Development Corporations in turn, through joint ventures or partnership arrangements, own interests in the 12 Residential Development Properties. The Residential Development Corporations are responsible for the continued development and the day-to-day operations of the Residential Development Properties.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES TABLE
The following table sets forth certain information as of December 31, 1997, relating to the Residential Development Properties.
- -------------------
(1) The Company has an approximately 94%, 94%, 90%, 95% and 95% ownership interest in Mira Vista Development Corp., Houston Area Development Corp., Crescent Development Management Corp., The Woodlands Land Company, Inc., and Desert Mountain Development Corp., respectively, through ownership of non-voting common stock in each of these Residential Development Corporations. (2) SF (Single-Family); CO (Condominium); TH (Townhome); TS (Timeshare). (3) Based on existing inventory of developed lots and lots to be developed. (4) The initial phase of this project (93 lots) is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 1998. (5) As of December 31, 1997, eight units were under contract at Villas at Beaver Creek representing $17.9 million in sales proceeds, 14 units were under contract at Villa Montane Townhomes representing $13.0 million in sales proceeds, and 515 contracts were pre-sold at Villa Montane Club representing $31.0 million in sales proceeds.
RETAIL PROPERTIES
The Company owns seven Retail Properties, which in the aggregate contain approximately 771,000 net rentable square feet. Four of the Retail Properties, The Woodlands Retail Properties, with an aggregate of approximately 356,000 net rentable square feet, are located in the Woodlands, a master-planned development located 27 miles north of downtown Houston, Texas. The Company has a 75% limited partner interest and an indirect approximately 10% general partner interest in the partnership that owns The Woodlands Retail Properties. Two of the Retail Properties, Las Colinas Plaza, with approximately 135,000 net rentable square feet, and The Crescent Atrium, with approximately 89,000 net rentable square feet, are located in submarkets of Dallas, Texas. The remaining Retail Property, The Park Shops at Houston Center, with an aggregate of approximately 191,000 net rentable square feet, is located in the CBD submarket of Houston, Texas. As of December 31, 1997, the Retail Properties were 95% leased.
ITEM 3.