ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
OFFICE AND RETAIL PROPERTIES
The Company's Office and Retail Properties are located primarily in Houston, Dallas/Fort Worth and Austin, Texas and Denver, Colorado. As of December 31, 1996, the Office and Retail Properties in these cities represented an aggregate of approximately 85% of the Company's portfolio of Office and Retail Properties on the basis of total net rentable square feet and accounted for approximately 85% of the Company's office and retail total revenues computed on a pro forma basis for the year ended December 31, 1996, as if all of the Properties owned at December 31, 1996, had been acquired as of January 1, 1996, without giving effect to 1997 acquisitions or Pending Investments.
OFFICE AND RETAIL PROPERTIES TABLES
The following table sets forth certain information about the Office and Retail Properties owned as of December 31, 1996, without giving effect to 1997 acquisitions or Pending Investments listed in Item 1. Business. Based on annualized rental revenues from office and retail leases in place as of December 31, 1996, no single tenant would have accounted for more than 5% of the Company's total annualized office and retail revenues for 1996.
(1) Percentage leased (commenced) represents commenced leases of paying tenants. Percentage leased (signed) represents percentage leased (commenced) plus significant signed but not commenced leases. (2) Calculated based on base rent payable as of December 31, 1996, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and including adjustments for (i) any operating costs (such as utilities, real estate taxes and/or insurance) payable by the tenants and (ii) any expense reimbursements received from the tenants, therefore representing an equivalent full-service rental rate. (3) Identifies tenants with leases that contribute 10% or more of total rental revenue currently paid at the Property, except for Retail Properties, for which only the largest tenant is identified. (4) Property was contributed to the Operating Partnership on May 5, 1994. (5) The Company has a 75% limited partner interest in the partnership that owns the 12 office properties that comprise The Woodlands Office Properties. (6) Two of The Woodlands Office Properties were acquired July 31, 1996. (7) The Company owns the principal economic interest in Spectrum Center through an interest in the Spectrum Mortgage Associates L.P., which owns both the Spectrum Note and the ground lessor's interest in the land underlying the office building. (8) The Company has a 1% general partner and a 49% limited partner interest in the partnership that owns 301 Congress Avenue. (9) The Company owns the principal economic interest in Three Westlake Park through its ownership of the Three Westlake Park cash flow mortgage note. (10) The Company has a 75% limited partner interest in the partnership that owns the four retail properties that comprise The Woodlands Retail Properties.
The following table provides information for the Company's Office Properties by state, city, and submarket as of December 31, 1996, without giving effect to 1997 acquisitions or Pending Investments listed in Item 1. Business.
(1) Represents net rentable area in square feet owned by the Company. (2) Sources are Jamison Research, Inc. (for the Far North Dallas, Las Colinas, Uptown/Turtle Creek, LBJ Freeway, Richardson/Plano, Fort Worth CBD and the New Orleans CBD submarkets), The Woodlands Corporation (for the Woodlands submarket), Cushman & Wakefield of Texas, Inc. (for the Katy Freeway submarket), Baca Landata, Inc. (for the Richmond/Buffalo Speedway submarket), CB Commercial (for the Austin CBD, Northwest and Southwest submarkets), Cushman & Wakefield of Colorado, Inc. (for the Denver CBD, Cherry Creek, and Denver DTC submarkets), Turner Commercial Research (for the Colorado Springs submarket), Grubb and Ellis Company (for the Phoenix CBD, Camelback Corridor and San Francisco South of Market CBD submarkets), Pacific Realty Group, Inc. (for the Omaha CBD submarket), Koll Market Research (for the Albuquerque CBD submarket), and John Burnham & Co. (for the San Diego UTC submarket). (3) Represents full-service rental rates. The weighted average subtotals and totals are based on total net rentable square feet of the Company's Office Properties in the submarket. These rates do not necessarily represent the amounts at which available space at the Company's Office Properties will be leased. (4) Represents weighted average rental rates per square foot quoted by the Company as of December 31, 1996, based on total net rentable square feet of Company Office Properties in the submarket, adjusted to an equivalent full-service quoted rental rate to facilitate comparison to Class A quoted submarket rental rates per square foot. (5) Calculated based on base rent payable for Company Office Properties in the submarket as of December 31, 1996, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and including adjustments for (i) any operating costs (such as utilities, real estate taxes and/or insurance) payable by the tenants and (ii) any expense reimbursements received from the tenants, therefore representing an equivalent full-service rental rate divided by total net rentable square feet of Company Office Properties in the submarket. (6) Represents an average of the submarket rental rate per square foot quoted for all classes of office properties within The Woodlands submarket, adjusted based on management estimates, to full-service equivalent rental rates. The 12 Office Properties included in the schedule represent all of the competitive office space within The Woodlands submarket. (7) Represents an average for Class A and B office properties. (8) Represents quoted triple-net rental rates per square foot, adjusted based on management estimates, to full-service equivalent rental rates.
MARKET INFORMATION
Management believes that its Office Properties reflect the Company's strategy to invest in premier assets within markets that have significant potential for rental growth. The Company has analyzed demographic and economic data to focus on markets it expects to benefit from significant internal employment growth as well as corporate relocations. After identifying and analyzing attractive regional markets, the Company selects submarkets which the Company believes will be the major beneficiaries of this projected growth. Management believes that the most attractive submarkets for office investment are those that integrate a premier office environment with quality of life features including: affordable residential housing; an environment generally well protected from crime; effective transportation systems; a significant concentration of retailing alternatives; and cultural centers, entertainment attractions and recreational facilities. Other factors considered by the Company in selecting the submarkets include proximity to major airports and the relative aggressiveness of local governments providing tax and other incentives designed to favor business.
Within these submarkets, the Company has focused on premier properties that management believes are able to attract and retain the highest quality tenants and command premium rents. In addition, several of the Properties benefit from significant "over-improvement" (improvements beyond what currently could be justified by expected economic returns) made by prior owners or developers. These over-improvements, which should not materially increase the future operating cost of the Properties, include various amenities, use of expensive materials, and extensive landscaping. Such premier properties also tend to be more stable in downward property cycles. Consistent with its investment strategies, the Company seeks situations where it can acquire properties that have strong economic returns based on in-place tenancy and have a dominant position within the submarket due to quality and/or location. Accordingly, management's investment strategy not only demands acceptable current cash flow return on invested capital, but also considers long-term cash flow growth prospects.
The demographic conditions, economic conditions and trends (employment growth and population growth) favoring the Company's major markets are projected to continue to be at or above the national average, as illustrated in the following table.
Projected Employment and Population Growth for all Company Markets
- ------------------------- Source: Cognetics, Inc.
SIGNIFICANT PROPERTY
The following is a description of the Greenway Plaza Portfolio which accounted for 10% or more of the Company's total assets as of December 31, 1996.
Greenway Plaza Portfolio. On October 7, 1996, the Company acquired from an unaffiliated entity 10 suburban office properties totaling 4.3 million net rentable square feet ("Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio") a 389-room full service hotel, a private health and dining club, a central plant which provides heated and chilled water to both the Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio and third parties, and six parking garages (collectively with the Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio, hereinafter referred to as the "Greenway Plaza Portfolio".) The aggregate cost of the Greenway Plaza Portfolio was $206 million, which was funded through the issuance to the sellers of 599,332 shares of common stock at $41.71 per share, the assumption of $115 million of nonrecourse indebtedness and $66 million of cash.
Situated on 50.3 acres, the Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio, which is located in the Richmond-Buffalo Speedway submarket of Houston, Texas, contains 2.0 million net rentable square feet of Class A and 2.3 million net rentable square feet of Class B office space. The office buildings were constructed between 1969 and 1983 and range in size from 150,000 to 880,000 net rentable square feet. Structured parking accommodates approximately 11,500 cars.
The Richmond-Buffalo Speedway submarket consists of 10.7 million square feet of office space, of which 3.9 million square feet is Class A and 4.0 million square feet is Class B space. As of December 31, 1996, average Class A and Class B suburban office occupancies in the Richmond-Buffalo Speedway submarket were 95.6% and 63.8%, respectively, and average quoted market rental rates were $14.03 and $12.68 per square foot, respectively.
The Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio was 74% leased as of December 31, 1996 (95.0% of the Class A office space and 56.2% of the Class B office space) with a weighted average base rental rate per square foot of $13.55 ($13.87 for Class A office space and $13.08 for Class B office space). The hotel and club are under triple-net leases with unaffiliated third parties. The Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio is leased to more than 280 tenants. The principal businesses of the tenants are in the industry sectors of energy service, investment management and natural gas.
One tenant of the Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio, the Coastal Corporation ("Coastal"), an energy service company, leases over 10% of the net rentable square footage. As of December 31, 1996, Coastal leased approximately 641,000 net rentable square feet (approximately 15.1% of the net rentable square footage of the Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio) pursuant to leases that expire in June 2010 and December 2014. The current base rental rate per square foot for approximately 617,000 net rentable square feet is $13.50, increasing periodically during the lease term up to a rate of $28.00 in January 2006, effective until December 2014. This lease provides for two 5-year renewal options at the then prevailing market rental rates. The current base rental rate per square foot for approximately 24,000 net rentable square feet is $13.50, increasing periodically during the lease term up to a rate of $19.00 in July 2005, effective until June 2010. This lease provides for one 4.5-year renewal, and two 5-year renewal options at the then prevailing market rental rates.
The aggregate tax bases of depreciable real property and improvements and personal property of the Greenway Plaza Portfolio for federal income tax purposes will be approximately $206 million. Depreciation and amortization are computed for federal income tax purposes using straight line methods over lives which range from 15 to 39 years for the real property and improvements, and 5 to 7 years for the personal property.
The 1996 realty tax rate for the real property was $2.76 per $100 of the $205 million assessed value. The total amount of tax at this rate for 1996 was approximately $5.66 million, of which $0.35 million was attributable to the hotel and club pursuant to their triple-net lease arrangements.
The following table sets forth the Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio year-end occupancy and average base rent per leased square foot (excluding storage space) for the five years ended December 31, 1996.
(1) Represents annual base rental revenues (excluding scheduled rent increases and free rent that would be taken into account under generally accepted accounting principles) divided by average occupancy in square footage for the year.
The following table sets forth for the Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio, a schedule of the lease expirations for leases in place as of January 1, 1997, for each of the 10 years beginning with January 1, 1997, assuming none of the tenants exercises renewal options and excluding 1,089,798 square feet of unleased space.
(1) Based on base rent payable as of the expiration date of the lease, for net rentable square feet expiring, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under GAAP and excluding (i) any operating costs (such as utilities, real estate taxes and/or insurance) payable by the tenants and (ii) any expense reimbursements received from the tenants.
AGGREGATE LEASE EXPIRATIONS OF OFFICE PROPERTIES AND RETAIL PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth for the Office and Retail properties, a schedule of the lease expirations for leases in place as of January 1, 1997, for each of the 10 years beginning with January 1, 1997 on an aggregate basis, assuming that none of the tenants exercises renewal options and excluding an aggregate of 2,682,111 square feet of unleased space.
(1) Based on base rent payable as of the expiration date of the lease, for net rentable square feet expiring, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under GAAP and excluding (i) any operating costs (such as utilities, real estate taxes and/or insurance) payable by the tenants and (ii) any expense reimbursements received from the tenants.
HOTEL PROPERTIES
HOTEL PROPERTIES TABLES
The following table sets forth certain information about the Hotel Properties for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995. The information for the Hotel Properties is based on available rooms, except for Canyon Ranch-Tucson and Lenox, which are destination health and fitness resorts, that measure performance based on available guest nights.
(1) Represents the maximum number of guests that the resort can accommodate per night. (2) The occupancy rate equals the number of paying and complimentary guests for the period, divided by the maximum number of available guest nights for the period (87,600 and 73,730 guest nights for the year ended December 31, 1995 and 1996, respectively, based on a maximum guests per night of 240 and 202, respectively). (3) Average daily rate equals the average daily "all-inclusive" guest package charges for the period, divided by the average daily number of paying guests for the period. (4) Revenue per available room equals the total "all-inclusive" guest package charges for the period, divided by the maximum number of available guest nights for the period.
The following table sets forth average occupancy, average daily rate, and revenue per available room for the Hotel Properties by full-service hotels and destination health and fitness resorts for each of the years ended December 31, 1992 through 1996. The information for the Hotel Properties is based on available rooms, except for Canyon Ranch-Tucson and Lenox, which are destination health and fitness resorts, that measure performance based on available guest nights and calculate occupancy, average daily rate and revenue per available room as described in the notes of the preceding table.
HOTEL MARKET INFORMATION
The U.S. hotel industry is experiencing a resurgence in profitability from its downturn in the early 1990's. Increased demand for luxury and destination resort hotel rooms has been met with virtually no increase in the supply of such rooms, resulting in increasing occupancies and room rates. According to Smith Travel Research, average occupancies for hotel rooms rose from 62.1% in 1992 to 65.7% in 1996, the highest level in more than a decade. Average hotel room rental rates grew 6.7%, 4.8%, and 4.8% in 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively, with the 1994 figure outpacing inflation for the first time in eight years. Within the luxury/resort and full-service segments of the industry, average occupancy increased approximately 8.9% and 6.5%, respectively, between 1992 and 1996, while average room rental rates increased approximately 20.3% and 17.4%, respectively, during the same period.
Business and convention travel accounts for about two-thirds of room demand and has risen along with the improving economy and increased corporate profits. Domestic leisure travel has also increased, especially among the "baby boomers" who are not only at the prime age for leisure travel but also have a greater tendency to travel than previous generations. A healthier, more active senior population is also contributing to the increase in travel.
With the aging of the "baby boomer" generation and the growing interest in quality of life activities, the resort/spa industry also is experiencing significant growth in the United States.
The average annual growth rates in revenue per available room ("REVPAR"), from 1991 through 1996, for the full-service and luxury/resort hotel segments were 6.4% and 5.3%, respectively, according to Smith Travel Research. This demand comes not only from the business and convention sector, but also from the leisure traveler who vacations increasingly at higher-end hotels.
The following table sets forth hotel REVPAR by price segment for the years 1991 through 1996.
- --------------------- (1) Does not include destination health and fitness resorts such as the Canyon Ranch resorts.
Source: Smith Travel Research
HOTEL LEASES
The Company cannot, consistent with its status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, operate the Hotel Properties directly. The Company has leased the Hotel Properties to independent companies (collectively, the "Hotel Lessees") pursuant to six separate leases. These independent companies are owned 4.5% by each of John C. Goff and Gerald W. Haddock, each of whom is an officer and director of the Company, and 91% by the Hotel Lessees' asset manager. Under the leases, each having a term of 10 years, the Hotel Lessees have assumed the rights and obligations of the property owner under the respective management agreement with the hotel operators, as well as the obligation to pay all property taxes and other charges against the property. As part of each of the lease agreements for five of the Hotel Properties, the Company has agreed to fund all capital expenditures relating to furniture, fixtures and equipment reserves required under the applicable management agreements. The only exception is Canyon Ranch-Tucson, in which the hotel lessee owns all furniture, fixtures and equipment associated with the property and will fund all related capital expenditures. Each of the leases provides for the payment by the lessee of the Hotel Property of (i) base rent, with periodic rent increases, (ii) percentage rent based on a percentage of gross room revenues above a specified amount, and (iii) a percentage of gross food and beverage revenues above a specified amount.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
The Company owns economic interests in three Residential Development Corporations through residential development property mortgages and non-voting common stock of these Residential Development Corporations. The Residential Development Corporations in turn, through joint ventures or partnership arrangements, own interests in nine residential development properties. The Residential Development Corporations are responsible for the continued development and the day-to-day operations of the residential development properties.
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES TABLE
The following table sets forth certain information about the residential development properties as of December 31, 1996.
(1) The Company has a 94%, 94% and 90% effective ownership interest in Mira Vista Development Corp., Houston Area Development Corp. and Crescent Development Management Corp., respectively, through ownership of non-voting common stock. (2) SF (Single-Family); CO (Condominium); TH (Townhome). (3) Based on existing inventory of developed lots and lots to be developed. (4) Houston Area Development Corporation has entered into a letter of intent with a national homebuilder to sell 166 lots in Falcon Point and 93 lots in Spring Lakes over a 24-month period commencing in the first quarter of 1997. (5) The initial phase of this project (93 lots) is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 1997. (6) As of December 31, 1996, 18 of the condominium units at One Beaver Creek and 22 of the condominium units at Market Square had been pre-sold, generating aggregate gross sales of $39.3 and $18.6 million, respectively. Closings are expected to begin in the fourth quarter of 1997 for One Beaver Creek and Market Square.
ITEM 3.