ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Company considers all of its Properties to be in good condition, well-maintained and suitable and adequate to carry on the Company's business.
OFFICE PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 1999, the Company owned 89 Office Properties located in 31 metropolitan submarkets in nine states with an aggregate of approximately 31.8 million net rentable square feet. The Company's Office Properties are located primarily in the Dallas/Fort Worth and Houston, Texas metropolitan areas. As of December 31, 1999, the Company's Office Properties in Dallas/Fort Worth and Houston represented an aggregate of approximately 72% of its office portfolio based on total net rentable square feet (39% for Dallas/Fort Worth and 33% for Houston).
In pursuit of management's objective to dispose of non-strategic and non-core assets, the Company was actively marketing for sale its wholly owned interests in 10 Office Properties at December 31, 1999. The Office Properties targeted for disposition represented an aggregate of approximately 2.9 million net rentable square feet in Dallas, Texas; Denver, Colorado; New Orleans, Louisiana; and Omaha, Nebraska. As of March 24, 2000, the Company completed the sale of six of the 10 Office Properties. The Office Properties sold were: The Amberton, Concourse Office Park, The Meridian, and Walnut Green Office Properties located in Dallas, Texas; the Energy Centre Office Property located in New Orleans, Louisiana; and the Central Park Plaza Office Property located in Omaha, Nebraska.
In addition, the Company has entered into contracts relating to the sale of two additional Office Properties: the AT&T Building located in Denver, Colorado; and One Preston Park located in Dallas, Texas. The sales of these Properties are expected to close by the end of the second quarter of 2000. Management expects to complete any economically justified sales of the remaining two Office Properties (Valley Centre located in Dallas, Texas; and 1615 Poydras located in New Orleans, Louisiana) by the end of the second quarter of 2000. Management is currently in the process of evaluating the bids for the remaining Properties to determine their economic viability as well as the credit-worthiness of the potential purchasers and their ability to close the transactions. The disposition of these Office Properties remains subject to the negotiation of acceptable terms and other customary conditions.
The Woodlands Commercial Properties Company, L.P., owned by the Company and Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund II, L.P., has been actively marketing for sale certain office/venture tech properties located in The Woodlands, which includes the Company's 12 Office Properties located in The Woodlands with an aggregate of approximately 0.8 million net rentable square feet. The sale of The Woodlands Office Properties is expected to close in the second quarter of 2000.
OFFICE PROPERTIES TABLES
The following table shows, as of December 31, 1999, certain information about the Company's Office Properties. Based on rental revenues from office and retail leases in effect as of December 31, 1999, no single tenant accounted for more than 4% of the Company's total Office and Retail segment rental revenues for 1999.
- ----------------
(1) Calculated based on base rent payable as of December 31, 1999, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under GAAP and including adjustments for expenses payable by or reimbursable from tenants.
(2) The Company has a 49.5% limited partner interest and a 0.5% general partner interest in the partnership that owns Bank One Center.
(3) The Company owns the principal economic interest in Trammell Crow Center through its ownership of fee simple title to the Property (subject to a ground lease and a leasehold estate regarding the building) and two mortgage notes encumbering the leasehold interests in the land and building.
(4) The Company owns the principal economic interest in Spectrum Center through an interest in Spectrum Mortgage Associates L.P., which owns both a mortgage note secured by Spectrum Center and the ground lessor's interest in the land underlying the office building.
(5) Leases have been executed at certain Office Properties but had not commenced as of December 31, 1999. If such leases had commenced as of December 31, 1999, the percent leased for all Office Properties would have been 93%. The total percent leased for these Properties would have been as follows: Trammell Crow Center - 89%; Stanford Corporate Center - 92%; Palisades Central II - 69%; Palisades Central I - 95%; Valley Centre - 90%; Greenway Plaza Office Portfolio- 96%; 1800 West Loop South - 65%; Ptarmigan Place - 100%; AT&T Building - 89%; 55 Madison - 93%; Energy Centre - 86%; Miami Center - 87%; Datran Center - 95%; Washington Harbour - 100%; and Chancellor Park - 94%.
(6) The Company has a 75% limited partner interest and an approximate 10% indirect general partner interest in the partnership that owns the 12 Office Properties that comprise The Woodlands Office Properties.
(7) The Property was primarily occupied by a major tenant until June 1999, at which time the tenant made a payment of $4.7 million in connection with its termination of the lease. Simultaneously with the lease termination, the Company leased approximately 41% of the vacated space to a new tenant pursuant to a lease which commenced September 1, 1999. An additional 21% of the vacated space was leased and commenced prior to December 31, 1999.
(8) As of December 31, 1999, the Company owned the principal economic interest in Three Westlake Park through its ownership of a mortgage note secured by Three Westlake Park. Effective January 7, 2000, the Property was conveyed to the Company by a deed in lieu of foreclosure, and as a result, the Company now owns Three Westlake Park in fee simple.
(9) The Company has a 1% general partner interest and a 49% limited partner interest in the partnership that owns 301 Congress Avenue.
(10) The Company owns Chancellor Park through its ownership of a mortgage note secured by the building and through its direct and indirect interests in the partnership which owns the building.
(11) The weighted average full-service rental rate per square foot calculated based on base rent payable for Company Office Properties as of December 31, 1999, giving effect to free rent and scheduled rent increases that would be taken into consideration under GAAP and including adjustments for expenses payable by or reimbursed from tenants is $20.38.
The following table provides information, as of December 31, 1999, for the Company's Office Properties by state, city, and submarket.
- ----------------------- (1) NRA means net rentable area in square feet.
(2) Market information is for Class A office space under the caption "Class A Office Properties" and market information is for Class B office space under the caption "Class B Office Properties." Sources are CoStar/Jamison, (for the Dallas CBD, Uptown/Turtle Creek, Far North Dallas, Las Colinas, Richardson/Plano, Stemmons Freeway, LBJ Freeway and Central Expressway, Fort Worth CBD and the New Orleans CBD submarkets), The Baca Group (for the Houston Richmond-Buffalo Speedway, CBD and West Loop/Galleria and Katy Freeway submarkets), The Woodlands Operating Company, L.P. (for The Woodlands submarket), CB Richard Ellis (for the Austin CBD, Northwest and Southwest submarkets), Cushman & Wakefield of Colorado, Inc. (for the Denver Cherry Creek, CBD and DTC submarkets), Turner Commercial Research (for the Colorado Springs market), Grubb and Ellis Company (for the Phoenix Downtown/CBD, Camelback Corridor and San Francisco South of Market/CBD submarkets), Grubb and Ellis Company and the Company (for the Washington D.C. Georgetown submarket), Grubb and Ellis/Pacific Realty Group, Inc. (for the Omaha CBD submarket), Building Interests, Inc. (for the Albuquerque CBD submarket), RealData Information Systems, Inc. (for the Miami CBD and South Dade/Kendall submarkets) and CoStar/John Burnham & Company (for the San Diego UTC submarket).
(3)Represents full-service quoted market rental rates. These rates do not necessarily represent the amounts at which available space at the Office Properties will be leased. The weighted average subtotals and total are based on total net rentable square feet of Company Office Properties in the submarket.
(4)For Office Properties, represents weighted average rental rates per square foot quoted by the Company as of December 31, 1999, based on total net rentable square feet of Company Office Properties in the submarket, adjusted, if necessary, based on management estimates, to equivalent full-service quoted rental rates to facilitate comparison to weighted average Class A or Class B, as the case may be, quoted submarket rental rates per square foot. These rates do not necessarily represent the amounts at which available space at the Company's Office Properties will be leased.
(5) Calculated based on base rent payable for Company Office Properties in the submarket as of December 31, 1999, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under GAAP and including adjustments for expenses payable by or reimbursed from tenants, divided by total net rentable square feet of Company Office Properties in the submarket.
(6) Leases have been executed at certain Properties in these submarkets but had not commenced as of December 31, 1999. If such leases had commenced as of December 31, 1999, the percent leased for all Office Properties in the Company's submarkets would have been 93%. The total percent leased for these Class A Company submarkets would have been as follows: Dallas CBD - 86%; Dallas Richardson/Plano - 88%; Houston Richmond - Buffalo Speedway - 96%; Miami CBD - 87%; Miami South Dade/Kendall - 95%; Washington D.C. Georgetown - 100%; and San Diego UTC - 94%.
(7) The weighted average full-service rental rate per square foot calculated based on base rent payable for Company Office Properties as of December 31, 1999, giving effect to free rent and scheduled rent increases that would be taken into consideration under GAAP and including adjustments for expenses payable by or reimbursed from tenants is $20.38.
The following table shows, as of December 31, 1999, the principal businesses conducted by the tenants at the Company's Office Properties, based on information supplied to the Company from the tenants.
- ---------- (1) Includes legal, accounting, engineering, architectural, and advertising services.
(2) Includes banking, title and insurance, and investment services.
(3) Of the 19% of energy tenants at the Company's Office Properties, 63% are located in Houston, 24% are located in Dallas, 7% are located in Denver and 6% are located in New Orleans. Of the 63% of energy tenants located in Houston (approximately 3.7 million square feet), 66% (approximately 2.4 million square feet) are obligated under long-term leases (expiring in 2004 or later).
(4) Includes construction, real estate, transportation and other industries.
AGGREGATE LEASE EXPIRATIONS OF OFFICE PROPERTIES
The following tables show schedules of lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 1999 for the Company's total Office Properties and for Dallas and Houston, Texas, individually, for each of the 10 years beginning with 2000, assuming that none of the tenants exercises or has exercised renewal options.
TOTAL OFFICE PROPERTIES
- ---------- (1) Calculated based on base rent payable under the lease for net rentable square feet expiring, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under GAAP and including adjustments for expenses payable by or reimbursable from tenants based on current levels.
(2) As of December 31, 1999, leases have been signed for approximately 1,655,276 net rentable square feet (including renewed leases and leases of previously unleased space) commencing in 2000.
(3) Reconciliation to the Company's total Office Property net rentable area is as follows:
DALLAS OFFICE PROPERTIES
- ---------- (1)Calculated based on base rent payable under the lease for net rentable square feet expiring, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under GAAP and including adjustments for expenses payable by or reimbursable from tenants based on current levels.
(2)As of December 31, 1999, leases have been signed for approximately 738,506 net rentable square feet (including renewed leases and leases of previously unleased space) commencing in 2000.
HOUSTON OFFICE PROPERTIES
- ---------- (1) Calculated based on base rent payable under the lease for net rentable square feet expiring, without giving effect to free rent or scheduled rent increases that would be taken into account under GAAP and including adjustments for expenses payable by or reimbursable from tenants based on current levels.
(2) As of December 31, 1999, leases have been signed for approximately 469,939 net rentable square feet (including renewed leases and leases of previously unleased space) commencing in 2000.
RETAIL PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 1999, the Company owned seven Retail Properties, which in the aggregate contain approximately 779,000 net rentable square feet. Four of the Retail Properties, The Woodlands Retail Properties, with an aggregate of approximately 358,000 net rentable square feet, were located in The Woodlands, a master-planned development located 27 miles north of downtown Houston, Texas. On January 5, 2000, the sale of The Woodlands Retail Properties was completed. Two of the Retail Properties, Las Colinas Plaza, with approximately 135,000 net rentable square feet, and The Crescent Atrium with approximately 95,000 net rentable square feet, are located in submarkets of Dallas, Texas. The remaining Retail Property, The Park Shops at Houston Center, with an aggregate of approximately 191,000 net rentable square feet, is located in the CBD submarket of Houston, Texas. As of December 31, 1999, the Retail Properties were 95% leased.
HOTEL PROPERTIES
HOTEL PROPERTIES TABLES
The following table shows certain information for the year ended December 31, 1999 and 1998, about the Company's Hotel Properties. The information for the Hotel Properties is based on available rooms, except for Canyon Ranch-Tucson and Canyon Ranch-Lenox, which are destination resorts and spas that measure their performance based on available guest nights.
- ---------- (1) Because of the Company's status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, it does not operate the Hotel Properties and has leased all of the Hotel Properties, except the Omni Austin Hotel, to COI pursuant to long term leases. As of January 1, 1999, the Omni Austin Hotel is leased, pursuant to a separate long term lease, to HCD Austin Corporation.
(2) The hotel is undergoing a $5 million renovation of all guest rooms and common areas scheduled to be completed during the third quarter of 2000.
(3) The hotel is undergoing a $15 million renovation project scheduled to be completed in October 2000. The renovation includes improvements to all guest rooms, the lobby, corridor, and exterior and interior systems.
(4) As of December 31, 1999, 58 condominiums have been converted to hotel suites.
(5) In 1998, the number of rooms was reduced to 276 due to 19 rooms being converted into a 20,000 square foot spa.
(6) In February 1999, 20 rooms were taken out of commission for construction of the spa, which is part of an approximately $20 million expansion scheduled to be completed in April 2000. The expansion will also include the construction of 30 additional guest rooms. Rates were discounted during the construction period, which resulted in a lower average daily rate and revenue per available room in 1999, as compared to 1998.
(7) Temporarily closed from February 1, 1998 through May 1, 1998 due to flooding in the region, affecting the roadway passage to the hotel.
(8) Represents available guest nights, which is the maximum number of guests that the resort can accommodate per night.
(9) Represents the number of paying and complimentary guests for the period, divided by the maximum number of available guest nights for the period.
(10) Represents the average daily "all-inclusive" guest package charges for the period, divided by the average daily number of paying guests for the period.
(11) Represents the total "all-inclusive" guest package charges for the period, divided by the maximum number of available guest nights for the period.
TEMPERATURE-CONTROLLED LOGISTICS PROPERTIES
TEMPERATURE-CONTROLLED LOGISTICS PROPERTIES TABLE
The following table shows the number and aggregate size of Temperature-Controlled Logistics Properties by state as of December 31, 1999:
- ---------- (1) As of December 31, 1999, the Company held an indirect 39.6% interest in the Temperature-Controlled Logistics Partnerships, which own the Temperature-Controlled Logistics Corporations, which directly or indirectly owned the Temperature-Controlled Logistics Properties. The business operations associated with the Temperature-Controlled Logistics Properties are owned by AmeriCold Logistics, in which the Company has no interest. The Temperature-Controlled Logistics Corporations are entitled to receive lease payments (base rent and percentage rent) from AmeriCold Logistics.
(2) Includes an underground storage facility, with approximately 33.1 million cubic feet.
(3) As of December 31, 1999, AmeriCold Logistics operated 104 temperature-controlled logistics properties with an aggregate of approximately 519.2 million cubic feet (19.9 million square feet).
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROPERTIES TABLE
The following table shows certain information as of December 31, 1999, relating to the Residential Development Properties.
(1) The Company has an approximately 95%, 95%, 90%, 94% and 94%, ownership interest in Desert Mountain Development Corp., The Woodlands Land Company, Inc., Crescent Development Management Corp., Mira Vista Development Corp., and Houston Area Development Corp., respectively, through ownership of non-voting common stock in each of these Residential Development Corporations.
(2) SF (Single-Family Lots); CO (Condominium); TH (Townhome); TS (Timeshare); and SFH (Single Family Homes).
(3) Based on lots/units closed during the Company's ownership period.
(4) Based on existing inventory of developed lots and lots to be developed.
(5) Includes golf membership, which for 1999, is approximately $175,000.
(6) As of December 31, 1999, two units were under contract at Deer Trail representing $5.9 million in sales, two units were under contract at Buckhorn Townhomes representing $3.3 million in sales, 32 units were under contract at Bear Paw Lodge representing $43.6 million in sales, 11 units were under contract at QuarterMoon representing $24.7 million in sales, 73 lots were under contract at Eagle Ranch representing $10.5 million in sales, six units were under contract at Main Street Junction representing $2.5 million in sales, and 27 lots were under contract at Three Peaks representing $6.4 million in sales.
BEHAVIORAL HEALTHCARE PROPERTIES
BEHAVIORAL HEALTHCARE PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 1999, the Behavioral Healthcare Segment consisted of 88 Behavioral Healthcare Properties, all of which were leased to CBHS and its subsidiaries under a triple-net master lease. CBHS is a Delaware limited liability company which was formed to operate the behavioral healthcare businesses located at the Behavioral Healthcare Properties and is owned 10% by a subsidiary of Magellan and 90% by COI and an affiliate of COI. CBHS operates the Behavioral Healthcare Properties through wholly owned subsidiaries.
During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company purchased two Behavioral Healthcare Properties from Magellan for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $7.1 million in satisfaction of its obligations under an agreement with Magellan entered into in November 1998. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company disposed of one Behavioral Healthcare Property for approximately $1.4 million in net proceeds.
On February 16, 2000, CBHS and all of its subsidiaries that are subject to the master lease with the Company filed voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy petitions in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware. CBHS has stated in its bankruptcy petitions that it intends to sell all of the ongoing businesses of CBHS and its subsidiaries by mid-May of 2000 or develop an appropriate liquidation procedure if the sales have not taken place by that time.
Effective February 29, 2000, the Non-Core Properties ceased to be subject to the master lease, although the aggregate rent due under the master lease was not reduced as a result except with respect to sales of Non-Core Properties. The Company is actively marketing these Properties for sale. From January 1 through March 24, 2000, the Company sold 11 Non-Core Properties for approximately $34.9 million in net proceeds. As a result of these sales and the sale of the one Behavioral Healthcare Property during the fourth quarter of 1999, the amount of rent due under the master lease was reduced in accordance with the amendments to the master lease. The Company has also entered into contracts or letters of intent to sell an additional six Non-Core Properties. The Company continues to actively market the remaining 34 Non-Core Properties for sale.
The Core Properties remain subject to the master lease. The Company intends to sell the Core Properties or lease them to new tenants in connection with CBHS's bankruptcy proceedings.
For more information on CBHS, the voluntary filing of the Chapter 11 bankruptcy petitions, the Company's investment in the Behavioral Healthcare Properties and the master lease, see Item 1. Business - Industry Segments - Behavioral Healthcare Segment and Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Behavioral Healthcare Segment.
ITEM 3.