ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth certain unaudited pro forma information with respect to the Current Hotels:
THE CURRENT HOTELS
1. Hampton Inn -- 208 Linville Road, Boone, North Carolina. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.1 acre site near the Blue Ridge Parkway in the northwestern part of North Carolina's Appalachian Mountains and is within 15 minutes from snow skiing slopes. Appalachian State University, a part of the University of North Carolina system, is located in Boone. In addition to other amenities, the hotel has an indoor pool and jacuzzi. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
2. Hampton Inn -- 112 Tourist Drive, Brunswick, Georgia. This three-story, interior and exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.9 acre site just off Interstate 95. Brunswick and the nearby Golden Isles feature beaches on the Atlantic Ocean as well as historic areas. The property also is near an outlet shopping center and several restaurants. In addition to other amenities, the hotel has a fitness center and outdoor swimming pool. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
3. Hampton Inn -- 201 Asheville Avenue, Cary, North Carolina. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.2 acre site at the interchange of US-1 and US-64, major area thoroughfares. In addition to other amenities, the hotel has an outdoor pool and a fitness center. Cary is located between Raleigh and Durham, adjacent to North Carolina's Research Triangle Park and the Raleigh-Durham International Airport. Raleigh is one of three cities, along with Durham and Chapel Hill, that comprise the Research Triangle. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
4. Hampton Inn -- U.S. Highway 29, Charlotte, North Carolina. This six-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.1 acre site off Interstate 85. The hotel is located in Charlotte, the largest metropolitan area in the Carolinas. The hotel is close to the Charlotte Motor Speedway, the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, and the University Hospital. The hotel has an outdoor pool and two hospitality suites. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
5. Hampton Inn -- 12610 Chestnut Hill Road, Chester (Richmond), Virginia. This two-story, interior corridor hotel was opened on April 15, 1994 and is located on an approximately 5.1 acre site near Interstate 95 and Route 10 (approximately 15 miles south of Richmond). The hotel is located near major components of the tobacco operations of Phillip Morris USA and major industrial and technical centers for DuPont and Allied. Amenities include a daily complimentary continental breakfast, on site guest laundry facilities and a jogging path. In connection with the acquisition of this hotel, the Company also acquired a free-standing restaurant, which is on an adjacent parcel of land and which is subject to a pre-existing lease. The property was acquired in November, 1994.
6. Hampton Inn -- 4154 Preferred Place, Duncanville (Dallas), Texas. This two-story, exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.5 acre site near Interstate 20 and LBJ Freeway, the Texas Rangers Baseball Stadium and Six Flags Over Texas. The property offers a complimentary continental breakfast, outdoor pool and a meeting room. The property was acquired in May 1996.
7. Hampton Inn -- 1816 Hillandale Road, Durham, North Carolina. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.0 acre site near Duke University, Duke University Medical Center and downtown Durham. The Research Triangle Park, a regional research and development center just south of Durham, is a major area employer. The property was substantially renovated and changed from a Comfort Inn to a Hampton Inn in 1991. The hotel has an outdoor pool and a conference room. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
8. Hampton Inn & Suites -- 1725 Pineland Road, Duluth, Georgia. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.5 acre site near Interstate 85 in suburban Atlanta. Located nearby are Gwinnett Mall, Lake Lanier, Stone Mountain and Chateau Elan. The property offers a complimentary full-service breakfast and social hour. Other amenities include a meeting room, fully equipped business center and outdoor swimming pool. The property was acquired in July 1996.
9. Hampton Inn -- One Airport Road, Hilton Head, South Carolina. This two-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 5.0 acre site near Highway 278, the airport and several golf and tennis facilities. The Hilton Head area is home for several major sporting events, including the MCI Heritage Golf Tournament and the Family Circle Tennis Tournament. Among other amenities, the hotel has an outdoor pool and a health spa, and a complimentary continental breakfast is served daily. The property was acquired in November 1994.
10. Hampton Inn -- 474 Western Boulevard, Jacksonville, North Carolina. This two-story, exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.1 acre site near Camp Lejeune Marine Corps Base. Camp Lejeune, a major U.S. Marine base accounts for a substantial amount of its business. Among other amenities, the property has an outdoor pool. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
11. Hampton Inn -- 769 Hammond Drive, Atlanta, Georgia. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 1.6 acre site near Interstate 285 and Georgia 400 in the Perimeter Center Area. The property offers a complimentary continental breakfast, a meeting room and an exercise room. Other amenities include an outdoor swimming pool and 25-inch televisions in every room. The property was acquired in July 1996.
12. Hampton Inn -- 6209 Glenwood Avenue, Raleigh, North Carolina. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 1.8 acre site near the Beltline, Interstate 40, the Crabtree Valley Mall and the Raleigh-Durham International Airport, to which the hotel offers free airport transportation. Amenities at the hotel include three meeting rooms, complimentary continental breakfast, manager's cocktail reception, and a health spa that is equipped with an outdoor pool, sauna and workout room. The property was acquired contemporaneously with the 1995 follow-on offering.
13. Hampton Inn -- 1675 U.S. Highway 1, Southern Pines, North Carolina. This two-story, exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 4.2 acre site near Pinehurst and other golfing attractions, including the World Golf Hall of Fame. In addition to its agriculture and manufacturing industries, the Southern Pines area attracts tourists because of the approximately 30 golf courses in the area. Tourism, which is primarily golf related, is an important part of the area's economy. The hotel seeks to capitalize on area golfing attractions by organizing golf tours for large numbers of visitors. The hotel has two small conference rooms. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
14. Hampton Inn -- 1533 Southlake Parkway, Morrow, Georgia. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.5 acre site off of Interstate 75 near South Lake Mall in suburban Atlanta. The hotel features southern garden landscaping, a fountain lobby and an outdoor pool. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
15. Hampton Inn -- 1011 Riverdale Street, West Springfield, Massachusetts. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.5 acre site near Interstate 91 at 1011 Riverdale Street, just a few miles from downtown West Springfield, the Basketball Hall of Fame, and Riverside Amusement Park. Hotel amenities include free continental breakfast, an outdoor pool, free in-room movies, and facsimile service. The property was acquired in July 1997.
16. Hampton Inn -- 200 Tarrytown Road, Route 119, Elmsford, New York. This seven-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 4.0 acre site off I-287 at exit #1 (Route 119.) The hotel is 17 miles north of New York City and is centrally located to Westchester County's major corporate headquarters such as AT&T, Bayer, Ciba, Coca Cola, Fuju, Hitachi, IBM, KLM, NYNEX, PepsiCo, and the area's many corporate parks. Amenities include a sunken lobby/breakfast area, a fitness center, and an outdoor pool with lounging deck. The property was acquired in October 1997.
17. Hampton Inn -- 567 Market Street, Wilmington, North Carolina. This two-story, exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.9 acre site approximately six miles from Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina. Wilmington is a resort area with light manufacturing and distribution businesses. The hotel offers a complimentary continental breakfast daily and provides an outdoor pool, hospitality suite, and access to an offsite health club. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
18. Comfort Inn -- 629 Frontage Road, Augusta, Georgia. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.3 acre site near Interstate 20, the Bobby Jones Expressway, Fort Gordon and The Augusta National Golf Course, home of the Masters Tournament. The property offers complimentary continental breakfast daily and other amenities including an outdoor pool and whirlpool, a meeting room and a fully equipped fitness center. The property was acquired in May 1995.
19. Comfort Inn -- 144 Bee Street, Charleston, South Carolina. This seven-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 1.0 acre site, which overlooks the Ashley River, and is near US 17 and Charleston's historic district, several full-service marinas and a medical complex, which consists of several area hospitals. Amenities include an outdoor swimming pool and a meeting room. The property was acquired in May 1995.
20. Comfort Inn -- 2100 West Hundred Street, Chester (Richmond), Virginia. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.0 acre site near Interstate 95 and Route 10 (approximately 15 miles south of Richmond), several major industrial corporations and several historic attractions, including the Confederate White House and Civil War battlefields. Amenities include an outdoor pool, health spa, meeting room and a complimentary continental breakfast. The property was acquired in November 1994.
21. Comfort Inn -- 3580 Ulmerton Road, Clearwater/St. Petersburg, Florida. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.8 acre site near Interstate 75, Busch Gardens amusement park, golf courses, restaurants, shopping, and many gulf
coast beaches and is on Tampa Bay. Among other amenities, the hotel has an outdoor pool and a whirlpool, which are in a central courtyard surrounded on all sides by the hotel, and a complimentary continental breakfast is served each day. The Company also owns a free-standing restaurant, which is on an adjacent parcel of land and which is subject to a pre-existing lease. The property was acquired in May 1995.
22. Comfort Inn -- 3508 Mount Moriah Road, Durham/Chapel Hill, North Carolina. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 4.5 acre site near the intersection of Interstate 40 and US 15-501 between Durham and Chapel Hill, which puts it in close proximity to Duke University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a number of restaurants and shopping opportunities. The hotel received the Choice Hotels "Gold Award" in 1992, 1993 and 1994. Amenities include an outdoor pool and an exercise room with a sauna and whirlpool. The property was acquired in November 1994.
23. Comfort Inn -- 1922 Skibbo Road, Fayetteville, North Carolina. This four-story, interior-corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.3 acre site near Interstate 95 and in the heart of a large trade center in North Carolina. Both Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base are nearby. Amenities include an outdoor pool, health spa, 25-inch televisions and a complimentary continental breakfast. The property was acquired in November 1994.
24. Comfort Inn -- 540 North Pleasantburg Drive, Greenville, South Carolina. This two-story, exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.0 acre site near Interstate 385, the BMW assembly plant, and Michelin's North American headquarters in the Greenville-Spartanburg Metropolitan area. The property offers a complimentary full-service breakfast and meeting room. Other amenities include an outdoor swimming pool, game room and sports bar. The property was acquired in May 1996.
25. Comfort Suites -- 1918 West 192 Bypass, London, Kentucky. This three-story interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 1.0 acre site near Interstate 75, Daniel Boone National Forest and Rockcastle River with whitewater sports attractions and bass fishing. The property offers a complimentary continental breakfast, meeting room and indoor swimming pool. The property was acquired in May 1996.
26. Comfort Suites -- 9350 Turkey Lake Road, Orlando, Florida. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 7.0 acre site conveniently located close to Interstate 4 and Florida Turnpike at the International Drive area off Sand Lake Road. Nearby attractions include Universal Studios, Sea World, Walt Disney World, and Orange County Convention Center. Hotel amenities include a tropically landscaped courtyard completed with a heated pool, kiddie pool, jacuzzi, playground, Pool Side Bar & Grille serving food and beverages daily, free shuttle to Universal Studios, Sea World, and Wet & Wild, and complimentary continental breakfast which is served every day. The property was acquired in May 1997.
27. Comfort Inn -- 2910 Capital Boulevard, Raleigh, North Carolina. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.7 acre site and is located near the Raleigh Beltline Highway, the State Capitol, Governor's mansion and North Carolina State University. Amenities include an outdoor pool and exercise area. The property was acquired in August 1994.
28. Comfort Inn -- 151 South College Road, Wilmington, North Carolina. This six-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.6 acre site near the end of Interstate 40. The hotel is near the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. The hotel features a complimentary continental breakfast, outdoor pool, social hour and access to a nearby fitness center. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
29. Holiday Inn Express -- 940 East Main Street, Abingdon, Virginia. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 1.2 acre site near Interstate 81 near Abingdon's Historic District and the Barter Theater (State Theater of Virginia). The property offers a complimentary continental breakfast and other amenities including an outdoor pool and meeting room. The property was acquired in May 1996.
30. Holiday Inn Express -- 13625 Icot Boulevard, Clearwater, Florida. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.4 acre site near Interstate 75, Busch Gardens amusement park, golf courses, restaurants, shopping, and many gulf and coast beaches in the Tampa Bay area, and is just minutes from St. Petersburg. Among other amenities, the hotel has an outdoor pool and whirlpool, and complimentary continental breakfast is served daily. The property was acquired in August 1997.
31. Holiday Inn Select -- 11350 LBJ Freeway, Garland, Texas. This property consists of one five-story building and two three-story buildings, all with interior corridors located on an approximately 6.5 acre site in suburban Dallas. The property offers an approximate 9,800 square foot conference center, four other meeting rooms and a 50-person auditorium. Other amenities include a full-service restaurant, nightclub, outdoor swimming pool and executive fitness club. The property was acquired in May 1996.
32. Courtyard by Marriott -- 3205 Boardwalk, Ann Arbor, Michigan. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 4.0 acre site just off Interstate 94 and is adjacent to the Company's Fairfield Inn. Area attractions include Briarwood Mall, Downtown Ann Arbor, University of Michigan, and the Henry Ford Museum. Amenities include complimentary in-room coffee service, valet service, non-smoking and handicap equipped rooms, and remote controlled cable TV with free premium movie channel. The property was acquired in September 1997.
33. Courtyard by Marriott -- 2504 N. Loop West, Houston, Texas. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.9 acre site directly off Loop 610 and Highway 290. It is easily accessible to all major thoroughfares around the city, and is only minutes from Downtown and the Galleria area. Amenities include an outdoor pool and jacuzzi in a beautiful courtyard setting, an exercise room, coffee makers, irons, and ironing boards. The property was acquired in July 1997.
34. Courtyard by Marriott -- 151 Van Campen Boulevard, Wilmington, North Carolina. This two-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.5 acre site near Wrightsville Beach and Revolutionary and Civil War historical sites. The property offers two large meeting rooms, full service breakfast and a lobby lounge. Other amenities include an outdoor swimming pool and a jacuzzi. The property was acquired in December 1996.
35. Homewood Suites -- 100 MacAlyson Court, Cary, North Carolina. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 9.1 acre site with a covered bridge entrance and a wooded setting near Research Triangle Park. The property offers a complimentary full-service breakfast, a business center, and a 1200 square foot meeting room. Other amenities include fully-equipped kitchens, a fitness room, an outdoor swimming pool and a sport court. The property was acquired in July 1996.
36. Homewood Suites -- 401 Bay Area Boulevard, Clearlake, Texas. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.6 acre site near NASA's Johnson Space Center and Rockwell's Space Operations Center. The property offers a complimentary full service breakfast, an executive business center and a fitness facility. Other amenities include fully-equipped in room kitchens, an outdoor swimming pool and a sport court. The property was acquired in September 1996.
37. Quality Suites -- 5225 North Arco Lane, Charleston, South Carolina. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.8 acre site just off Interstate 26 near Charleston's International Airport and only a few miles away from Charleston's Historic District. The hotel has 168 two room suites designed around a five-story atrium. The property offers a complimentary cooked-to-order breakfast, manager's cocktail reception, meeting room and outdoor pool and health spa. The property was acquired in May 1995.
38. Fairfield Inn -- 3285 Boardwalk, Ann Arbor, Michigan. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.5 acre site. Nearby attractions include Bearwood Mall and the University of Michigan. Amenities include a heated indoor pool and whirlpool, free continental breakfast, and free HBO and ESPN. The property was acquired in September 1997.
THE PERCENTAGE LEASES
In order for the Company to qualify as a REIT, neither the Company nor the Partnership can operate hotels. Therefore, the Company and the Partnership lease the Current Hotels for terms of 15 years pursuant to Percentage Leases, which provide for rent equal to the greater of Base Rent or Percentage Rent. The Percentage Leases for the Current Hotels contain the provisions described below. The Company intends that future leases with respect to its hotel property investments will contain substantially similar provisions, although the Company's Board of Directors may, in its discretion, alter any of these provisions with respect to any particular lease, depending on the purchase price paid, economic conditions and other factors deemed relevant at the time.
Percentage Lease Terms. Each Percentage Lease for the Current Hotels has a non-cancelable term of 15 years beginning November 1997, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Percentage Lease.
Amounts Payable Under the Percentage Leases. During the term of each Percentage Lease, the Lessee is or will be obligated to pay (i) the greater of Base Rent or Percentage Rent (collectively, the "Rent") and (ii) certain other additional charges. Base Rent accrues and is required to be paid monthly. Percentage Rent is calculated by multiplying fixed percentages by gross room revenues for each of the hotels. Percentage Rent is due quarterly. However, with respect to eleven of the Current Hotels, the Lessee will not be in default for non-payment of Percentage Rent due in any calendar year if the Lessee pays, within 90 days of the end of the calendar
year, the excess of Percentage Rent due and unpaid over the Base Rent paid by the Lessee with respect to such year. With respect to the other Current Hotels, the Lessee will not be in default for the non-payment of Percentage Rent if it pays, within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter, the excess of Percentage Rent due and unpaid over the Base Rent paid year-to-date with respect to such quarter.
Beginning in the calendar year following the year in which most Percentage Leases commence, and for each year thereafter, (i) the annual Base Rent and (ii) the Percentage Rent formulas will be adjusted for inflation, based on quarterly changes in the CPI. The adjustment in any quarter may not exceed 2%, which may be less than the change in CPI for the quarter.
Other than real estate and personal property taxes, casualty insurance, capital improvements and maintenance of underground utilities and structural elements, which are obligations of the Company, the Percentage Leases require the Lessee to pay rent, insurance, all costs and expenses and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of the Current Hotels. The Percentage Leases also provide for rent reductions and abatements in the event of damage to or destruction or a partial taking of any Current Hotel.
Maintenance and Modifications. Under the Percentage Leases, the Company is required to maintain the underground utilities and the structural elements of the improvements, including exterior walls (excluding plate glass) and the roof of such Current Hotel. In addition, the Percentage Leases obligate the Company to fund periodic capital improvements (in addition to maintenance of underground utilities and structural elements) to the buildings and grounds comprising their respective Current Hotels, and the periodic repair, replacement and refurbishment of furniture, fixtures and equipment in their respective Current Hotels, up to an amount equal to 5% of room revenues for limited-service hotels, and 7% of room revenues and food and beverage revenue for the full-service hotel. These obligations will be carried forward to the extent that the Lessee has not expended such amounts, and any unexpended amounts will remain the property of the Company upon termination of the Percentage Leases. Except for capital improvements and maintenance of structural elements and underground utilities, the Lessee will be required, at its expense, to maintain the Current Hotels in good order and repair, except for ordinary wear and tear, and to make non-structural, foreseen and unforeseen, and ordinary and extraordinary repairs which may be necessary and appropriate to keep the Current Hotels in good order and repair.
The Lessee is not obligated to bear the cost of capital improvements to the Current Hotels. With the consent of the Company, however, the Lessee, at its expense, may make non-capital and capital additions, modifications or improvements to the Current Hotels, provided that such action does not significantly alter the character or purposes of the Current Hotels or significantly detract from the value or operating efficiencies of the Current Hotels. All such alterations, replacements and improvements shall be subject to all the terms and provisions of the Percentage Leases and will become the property of the Company upon termination of the Percentage Leases. The Company owns or will own substantially all personal property (other than inventory, linens, and other nondepreciable personal property) not affixed to, or deemed a part of, the real estate or improvements thereon comprising their respective Current Hotels, except to the extent that ownership of such personal property would cause the rents under the Percentage Leases not to qualify as "rents from real property" for REIT income test purposes.
ITEM 3.