ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth certain unaudited pro forma information with respect to the Current Hotels:
* Hotel opened during 1998. # Hotel acquired during 1998.
THE CURRENT HOTELS
1. Hampton Inn -- 208 Linville Road, Boone, North Carolina. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.1 acre site near the Blue Ridge Parkway in the northwestern part of North Carolina's Appalachian Mountains and is within 15 minutes from snow skiing slopes. Appalachian State University, a part of the University of North Carolina system, is located in Boone. In addition to other amenities, the hotel has an indoor pool and jacuzzi. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
2. Hampton Inn -- 112 Tourist Drive, Brunswick, Georgia. This three-story, interior and exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.9 acre site just off Interstate 95. Brunswick and the nearby Golden Isles feature beaches on the Atlantic Ocean as well as historic areas. The property also is near an outlet shopping center and several restaurants. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
3. Hampton Inn -- 201 Asheville Avenue, Cary, North Carolina. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.2 acre site at the interchange of US-1 and US-64, major area thoroughfares. Cary is located between Raleigh and Durham, adjacent to North Carolina's Research Triangle Park and the Raleigh-Durham International Airport. Raleigh is one of three cities, along with Durham and Chapel Hill, that comprises the Research Triangle. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
4. Hampton Inn -- U.S. Highway 29, Charlotte, North Carolina. This six-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.1 acre site off Interstate 85. The hotel is located in Charlotte, the largest metropolitan area in the Carolinas. The hotel is close to the Charlotte Motor Speedway, the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, and the University Hospital. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
5. Hampton Inn -- 12610 Chestnut Hill Road, Chester (Richmond), Virginia. This two-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 5.1 acre site near Interstate 95 and Route 10 (approximately 15 miles south of Richmond). The hotel is located near major components of the tobacco operations of Phillip Morris USA and major industrial and technical centers for DuPont and Allied. In connection with the acquisition of this hotel, the Company also acquired a free-standing restaurant, which is on an adjacent parcel of land and which is subject to a pre-existing lease. The property was acquired in November 1994.
6. Hampton Inn -- 4154 Preferred Place, Duncanville (Dallas), Texas. This two-story, exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.5 acre site near Interstate 20 and LBJ Freeway, the Texas Rangers Baseball Stadium and Six Flags Over Texas. The property was acquired in May 1996.
7. Hampton Inn -- 1816 Hillandale Road, Durham, North Carolina. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.0 acre site near Duke University, Duke University Medical Center and downtown Durham. The Research Triangle Park, a regional research and development center just south of Durham, is a major area employer. The property was substantially renovated and changed from a Comfort Inn to a Hampton Inn in 1991. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
8. Hampton Inn & Suites -- 1725 Pineland Road, Duluth (Gwinnett), Georgia. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.5 acre site near Interstate 85 in suburban Atlanta. Located nearby are Gwinnett Mall, Lake Lanier, Stone Mountain and Chateau Elan. The property was acquired in July 1996.
9. Hampton Inn -- One Airport Road, Hilton Head, South Carolina. This two-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 5.0 acre site near Highway 278, the airport and several golf and tennis facilities. The Hilton Head area is home for several major sporting events, including the MCI Heritage Golf Tournament and the Family Circle Tennis Tournament. The property was acquired in November 1994.
10. Hampton Inn -- 474 Western Boulevard, Jacksonville, North Carolina. This two-story, exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.1 acre site near Camp Lejeune Marine Corps Base. Camp Lejeune, a major U.S. Marine base, accounts for a substantial amount of its business. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
11. Hampton Inn -- 7100 Cascade Valley Court, Las Vegas, Nevada. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.7 acre site near Mountain View Hospital and twelve miles from the Las Vegas Strip. The hotel was acquired in May 1998.
12. Hampton Inn -- 769 Hammond Drive, Atlanta (Perimeter), Georgia. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 1.6 acre site near Interstate 285 and Georgia 400 in the Perimeter Center Area. The property was acquired in July 1996.
13. Hampton Inn -- 6209 Glenwood Avenue, Raleigh, North Carolina. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 1.8 acre site near the Raleigh Beltline Highway, Interstate 40, the Crabtree Valley Mall and the Raleigh-Durham International Airport, to which the hotel offers free airport transportation. The property was acquired contemporaneously with the 1995 follow-on offering.
14. Hampton Inn -- 1675 U.S. Highway 1, Southern Pines, North Carolina. This two-story, exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 4.2 acre site near Pinehurst and other golfing attractions, including the World Golf Hall of Fame. In addition to its agriculture and manufacturing industries, the Southern Pines area attracts tourists because of the approximately 30 golf courses in the area. Tourism, which is primarily golf related, is an important part of the area's economy. The hotel seeks to capitalize on area golfing attractions by organizing golf tours for large numbers of visitors. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
15. Hampton Inn -- 1533 Southlake Parkway, Morrow (Southlake), Georgia. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.5 acre site off of Interstate 75 near South Lake Mall in suburban Atlanta. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
16. Hampton Inn -- 1011 Riverdale Street, West Springfield, Massachusetts. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.5 acre site near Interstate 91, just a few miles from downtown West Springfield, the Basketball Hall of Fame, and Riverside Amusement Park. The property was acquired in July 1997.
17. Hampton Inn -- 200 Tarrytown Road, Route 119, Elmsford (White Plains), New York. This seven-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 4.0 acre site off I-287. The hotel is 17 miles north of New York City and is centrally located to Westchester County's major corporate headquarters such as AT&T, Bayer, Ciba, Coca-Cola, Fuju, Hitachi, IBM, KLM, NYNEX, PepsiCo, and the area's many corporate parks. The property was acquired in October 1997.
18. Hampton Inn -- 567 Market Street, Wilmington, North Carolina. This two-story, exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.9 acre site approximately six miles from Wrightsville Beach, North Carolina. Wilmington is a resort area with light manufacturing and distribution businesses. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
19. Comfort Inn -- 629 Frontage Road, Augusta, Georgia. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.3 acre site near Interstate 20, the Bobby Jones Expressway, Fort Gordon and The Augusta National Golf Course, home of the Masters Tournament. The property was acquired in May 1995.
20. Comfort Inn -- 144 Bee Street, Charleston, South Carolina. This seven-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 1.0 acre site, which overlooks the Ashley River, and is near US 17 and Charleston's historic district, several full-service marinas and a medical complex, which consists of several area hospitals. The property was acquired in May 1995.
21. Comfort Inn -- 2100 West Hundred Street, Chester (Richmond), Virginia. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.0 acre site near Interstate 95 and Route 10 (approximately 15 miles south of Richmond), several major industrial corporations and several historic attractions, including the Confederate White House and Civil War battlefields. The property was acquired in November 1994.
22. Comfort Inn -- 3580 Ulmerton Road, Clearwater/St. Petersburg, Florida. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.8 acre site on Tampa Bay near Interstate 75, Busch Gardens amusement park, golf courses, restaurants, shopping, and many gulf coast beaches. The Company also owns a free-standing restaurant, which is on an adjacent parcel of land and which is subject to a pre-existing lease. The property was acquired in May 1995.
23. Comfort Inn -- 3508 Mount Moriah Road, Durham/Chapel Hill, North Carolina. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 4.5 acre site near the intersection of Interstate 40 and US 15-501 between Durham and Chapel Hill, which puts it in close proximity to Duke University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a number of restaurants and shopping opportunities. The property was acquired in November 1994.
24. Comfort Inn -- 1922 Skibbo Road, Fayetteville, North Carolina. This four-story, interior-corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.3 acre site near Interstate 95 and in the heart of a large trade center in North Carolina. Both Fort Bragg and Pope Air Force Base are nearby. The property was acquired in November 1994.
25. Comfort Inn -- 540 North Pleasantburg Drive, Greenville, South Carolina. This two-story, exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.0 acre site near Interstate 385, the BMW assembly plant, and Michelin's North American headquarters in the Greenville-Spartanburg Metropolitan area. The property was acquired in May 1996.
26. Comfort Suites -- 1918 West 192 Bypass, London, Kentucky. This three-story interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 1.0 acre site near Interstate 75, Daniel Boone National Forest and the Rockcastle River which offers whitewater sports attractions and bass fishing. The property was acquired in May 1996.
27. Comfort Suites -- 9350 Turkey Lake Road, Orlando, Florida. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 7.0 acre site conveniently located close to Interstate 4 and Florida Turnpike at the International Drive area off Sand Lake Road. Nearby attractions include Universal Studios, Sea World, Walt Disney World, and Orange County Convention Center. The property was acquired in May 1997.
28. Comfort Inn -- 2910 Capital Boulevard, Raleigh, North Carolina. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.7 acre site and is located near the Raleigh Beltline Highway, the State Capitol, Governor's mansion and North Carolina State University. The property was acquired in August 1994.
29. Comfort Inn -- 151 South College Road, Wilmington, North Carolina. This six-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.6 acre site near the end of Interstate 40 and the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. The hotel was acquired contemporaneously with the IPO.
30. Homewood Suites -- 10775 Davis Drive, Alpharetta, Georgia. This six-story, all-suites (with full kitchen), interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.8 acre site near North Point Mall and GA 400. The hotel was internally developed and opened in May 1998.
31. Homewood Suites -- 100 MacAlyson Court, Cary, North Carolina. This four-story, all-suites (with full kitchen), interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 9.1 acre site with a covered bridge entrance and a wooded setting near Research Triangle Park. The property was acquired in July 1996.
32. Homewood Suites -- 401 Bay Area Boulevard, Clearlake, Texas. This three-story, all-suites (with full kitchen), interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.6 acre site near NASA's Johnson Space Center and Rockwell's Space Operations Center. The property was acquired in September 1996.
33. Homewood Suites -- 3600 Mount Moriah Road, Durham, North Carolina. This four-story, all-suites (with full kitchen) interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.9 acre site near Interstate 40 and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. The hotel was internally developed and opened in November 1998.
34. Homewood Suites -- 755 Currency Circle, Lake Mary, Florida. This five-story, all-suites (with full kitchen), interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.8 acre site near Seminole Towne Center Mall and the Central Florida Zoological Park. The hotel was internally developed and opened in May 1998.
35. Homewood Suites -- 2536 West Beryl Avenue, Phoenix, Arizona. This five-story, all suites (with full kitchen), interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.1 acre site off of Interstate 17 and is near the Metro Mall and the Castles and Coasters Amusement Park. The hotel was acquired in June 1998.
36. Homewood Suites -- 5400 Edwards Mill Road, Raleigh, North Carolina. This seven-story, all-suites (with full kitchen), interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.8 acre near the Raleigh Beltline Highway, Interstate 40, the Crabtree Valley Mall and the Raleigh-Durham International Airport, to which the hotel offers free airport transportation. The hotel was internally developed and opened in March 1998.
37. Holiday Inn Express -- 940 East Main Street, Abingdon, Virginia. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 1.2 acre site near Interstate 81, Abingdon's Historic District and the Barter Theater (State Theater of Virginia). The property was acquired in May 1996.
38. Holiday Inn Express -- 13625 Icot Boulevard, Clearwater, Florida. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.4 acre site near Interstate 75, Busch Gardens amusement park, golf courses, restaurants, shopping, and many gulf and coast beaches in the Tampa Bay area, and is just minutes from St. Petersburg. The property was acquired in August 1997.
39. Holiday Inn Select -- 11350 LBJ Freeway, Garland (Dallas), Texas. This property consists of one five-story building and two three-story buildings, all with interior corridors located on an approximately 6.5 acre site in suburban Dallas. The property offers an approximately 9,800 square foot conference center, four other meeting rooms and a 50-person auditorium. Other amenities include a full-service restaurant and a nightclub. The property was acquired in May 1996.
40. Holiday Inn -- 300 Plaza Drive, Secaucus, New Jersey. This eight-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 0.57 acre site which is adjacent to the Harmon Meadow Mall and is near the Meadowlands Sports Complex, the Statue of Liberty and Mid-town Manhattan. This hotel offers a full-service restaurant with evening bar and lounge. The property was acquired in May 1998.
41. Holiday Inn -- 700 Hope Road, Tinton Falls, New Jersey. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 5.2 acre site located near Monmouth Park Racetrack, the Garden State Parkway and Fort Monmouth. This hotel offers a full-service restaurant with evening bar and lounge. The property was acquired in April 1998.
42. Courtyard by Marriott -- 3205 Boardwalk, Ann Arbor, Michigan. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 4.0 acre site just off Interstate 94 and is adjacent to the Company's Fairfield Inn. Area attractions include Briarwood Mall, Downtown Ann Arbor, the University of Michigan, and the Henry Ford Museum. The property was acquired in September 1997.
43. Courtyard by Marriott -- 2504 N. Loop West, Houston, Texas. This three-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.9 acre site directly off Loop 610 and Highway 290. It is easily accessible to all major thoroughfares around the city, and is only minutes from Downtown and the Galleria area. The property was acquired in July 1997.
44. Courtyard by Marriott -- 151 Van Campen Boulevard, Wilmington, North Carolina. This two-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.5 acre site near Wrightsville Beach and Revolutionary and Civil War historical sites. The property was acquired in December 1996.
45. Courtyard by Marriott -- 1600 Westbrook Plaza Drive, Winston-Salem, North Carolina. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.0 acre site near Wake Forest University, Interstate 40 and Winston-Salem State University. The hotel offers a full-service restaurant with evening bar and lounge. The property was internally developed and opened in October 1998.
46. Hilton Garden Inn -- 800 Albany Shaker Road, Albany, New York. This six-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 4.0 acre site across from the Albany International Airport. The hotel offers a full-service restaurant and lounge. Other amenities include an indoor swimming pool, fitness center, pantry shop and business center. Each room has a microwave, refrigerator and state-of-the-art telecommunications connections. The property was acquired in May 1998.
47. Hilton Garden Inn -- 4025 Windward Plaza, Alpharetta, Georgia. This six-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.4 acre site near North Point Mall and GA 400. The offers a full-service restaurant and lounge. Other amenities include an indoor swimming pool, fitness center, pantry shop and business center. Each room has a microwave, refrigerator and state-of-the-art telecommunications connections. The property was acquired in March 1998.
48. Hilton Garden Inn -- 1500 RDU Center Drive, Morrisville (Raleigh/Durham), North Carolina. This six-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 6.0 acre site near the Raleigh/Durham International Airport and the Research Triangle Park. This hotel offers a full-service restaurant. Other amenities include an indoor swimming pool, fitness center, pantry shop and business center. Each room has a microwave, refrigerator and state-of-the-art telecommunications connections. The property was acquired in June 1998.
49. Quality Suites -- 5225 North Arco Lane, Charleston, South Carolina. This five-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 3.8 acre site just off Interstate 26 near Charleston's International Airport and only a few miles away from Charleston's Historic District. The hotel is designed around a five-story atrium. The property was acquired in May 1995.
50. Residence Inn - 8242 North Black Canyon Highway, Phoenix, Arizona. This two-story, all suites (with full kitchen), exterior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 4.9 acre site near Downtown Phoenix and the Black Canyon commercial district. This hotel was acquired in March 1998.
51. Fairfield Inn -- 3285 Boardwalk, Ann Arbor, Michigan. This four-story, interior corridor hotel is located on an approximately 2.5 acre site adjacent to the Company's Courtyard by Marriott. Nearby attractions include Bearwood Mall, Downtown Ann Arbor, the University of Michigan and the Henry Ford Museum. Amenities include a heated indoor pool and whirlpool. The property was acquired in September 1997.
THE PERCENTAGE LEASES
In order for the Company to qualify as a REIT, neither WHI nor the Partnership can operate hotels. Therefore, WHI and the Partnership lease the Current Hotels for terms of 10 or 15 years pursuant to Percentage Leases, which provide for rent equal to the greater of Base Rent or Percentage Rent. The Percentage Leases for the Current Hotels contain the provisions described below. The Company intends that future leases with respect to its hotel property investments will contain substantially similar provisions, although the Company may, in its discretion, alter any of these provisions with respect to any particular lease, depending on the purchase price paid, economic conditions and other factors deemed relevant at the time.
Percentage Lease Terms
Each Percentage Lease for the Current Hotels has a non-cancelable term of 10 or 15 years, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Percentage Lease.
Amounts Payable Under the Percentage Leases
During the term of each Percentage Lease, the lessees are or will be obligated to pay (i) the greater of Base Rent or Percentage Rent (collectively, the "Rent") and (ii) certain other additional charges. Base Rent accrues and is required to be paid monthly. Percentage Rent consists of minimum percentage rent and excess percentage rent, if any. Minimum percentage rent is calculated based primarily on the amount of room revenue up to a predetermined threshold per the lease. The percentage, which differs by hotel, is multiplied by this amount to calculate minimum percentage rent. These percentages range from 23% to 81%. Excess percentage rent is calculated based primarily on the amount of any room revenue in excess of the predetermined threshold mentioned above. The percentage, which differs by hotel, is multiplied by this amount to calculate excess percentage rent. These percentages range from 5% to 80%. For most leases, the percentage used to calculate excess percentage rent exceeds the percentage used to calculate the minimum percentage rent. Percentage Rent is due either monthly or quarterly.
Beginning in the fiscal year following the year in which most Percentage Leases commence, and for each fiscal year thereafter, (i) the annual Base Rent and (ii) the Percentage Rent formulas will be adjusted on a quarterly or annual basis for inflation, based on changes in the CPI. The adjustment in any quarter may not exceed 2%, which may be less than the change in CPI for the quarter.
Other than real estate and personal property taxes, casualty insurance, capital improvements and maintenance of underground utilities and structural elements, which are obligations of the Company, the Percentage Leases require the lessees to pay rent, insurance, all costs and expenses and all utility and other charges incurred in the operation of the Current Hotels. The Percentage Leases also provide for rent reductions and abatements in the event of damage to, destruction of or a partial taking of any Current Hotel.
Maintenance and Modifications
Under the Percentage Leases, the Company is required to maintain the underground utilities and the structural elements of the improvements, including exterior walls (excluding plate glass) and the roof of such Current Hotel. In addition, the Percentage Leases obligate the Company to fund periodic capital improvements (in addition to maintenance of underground utilities and structural elements) to the buildings and grounds comprising their respective Current Hotels, and the periodic repair, replacement and refurbishment of furniture, fixtures and equipment in their respective Current Hotels, up to an amount equal to 5% of room revenues
(7% of room revenues and food and beverage revenue for one of its full-service hotels). These obligations will be carried forward to the extent that the lessees have not expended such amounts, and any unexpended amounts will remain the property of the Company upon termination of the Percentage Leases. Except for capital improvements and maintenance of structural elements and underground utilities, the lessees are required, at their expense, to maintain the Current Hotels in good order and repair, except for ordinary wear and tear, and to make non-structural, foreseen and unforeseen, and ordinary and extraordinary repairs which may be necessary and appropriate to keep the Current Hotels in good order and repair.
The lessees are not obligated to bear the cost of capital improvements to the Current Hotels. With the consent of the Company, however, the lessees, at their expense, may make non-capital and capital additions, modifications or improvements to the Current Hotels, provided that such action does not significantly alter the character or purposes of the Current Hotels or significantly detract from the value or operating efficiencies of the Current Hotels. All such alterations, replacements and improvements shall be subject to all the terms and provisions of the Percentage Leases and will become the property of the Company upon termination of the Percentage Leases. The Company owns or will own substantially all personal property not affixed to, or deemed a part of, the real estate or improvements thereon comprising their respective Current Hotels, except to the extent that ownership of such personal property would cause the rents under the Percentage Leases not to qualify as "rents from real property" for REIT income test purposes.
ITEM 3.