Item 2. PROPERTIES
Residential Properties
At December 31, 1996, fifty-seven of the Properties are Residential Properties, 55 of which the Company considers to have reached stabilized occupancy. A residential property is considered by the Company to have achieved stabilized occupancy on the earlier to occur of (i) attainment of 93% physical occupancy on the first day of any month or (ii) one year after the completion of construction. The Residential Properties, which represented 96.7% of the total Property revenue for the year ended December 31, 1996, contain a total of 15,954 apartment units. Twenty-one of the Residential Properties, containing a total of 6,007 apartment units, are located in Florida, 13 (3,450 apartment units) are located in Missouri, eight (2,167 apartment units) in North Carolina, nine (2,836 apartment units) in Texas, five (1,142 apartment units) in Kentucky and one (352 apartment units) in South Carolina. The Residential Properties range in size from 112 to 708 apartment units. Forty-two of the Residential Properties were developed by Paragon and are now managed by the Company while 14 were acquired from third parties and one from an affiliate and have been managed by the Company or Paragon for an average of 9 years. The weighted average age of the Residential Properties is approximately 12 years and the average apartment unit size is approximately 787 square feet. For the year ended December 31, 1996, the weighted average occupancy of the stabilized Residential Properties was 92.6% and the weighted average monthly rental rate per apartment unit was approximately $535.
Three additional residential properties were under construction at December 31, 1996 with completion estimated for the first and second quarters of 1997. This includes the 336 unit Brassfield Park apartments owned by Paradim located in Greensboro, North Carolina which was completed in March 1997. The other two properties are located in North Carolina and Missouri and will contain, when completed, 232 and 288 units, respectively. The Company also owns a 12.6 acre tract of land located in Florida for which 320 multifamily residential units are planned which it acquired in December 1996 for future development. In addition, the Company has also entered into a non-recourse ground lease, which commenced on October 24, 1996, related to approximately 27.47 acres in Louisville, Kentucky for potential development of an additional multifamily residential community in 1997. "See Item 1: BUSINESS--Recent Development and Activities--Property Development."
The following table sets forth certain information about each of the residential Properties that were owned by the Company as of December 31, 1996:
------------------
(1) Weighted Average Occupancy is calculated by taking the actual apartment units occupied at the end of each month the Property was in operation during the year, divided by the total number of apartment units in operation at the end of such month, and averaging those amounts.
(2) The Company acquired these Properties in the fourth quarter of 1996. Therefore, the weighted average occupancy and weighted average rental rate per apartment unit are based on information from the date of acquisition only.
(3) The Company completed this property in the first quarter of 1996. Therefore, the weighted average occupancy and weighted average rental rate per apartment unit are based on information from the date of completion only.
(4) The Company (through the Operating Partnership) is the controlling partner of the partnership that owns this Property and generally has the right to receive a preferred return on its interest that is expected to provide the Company with substantially all of the cash flow distributed with respect to the Property for the foreseeable future. The percentage disclosed generally represents the Company's interest in cash flow and sales and refinancing proceeds in addition to and payable after the Company's preference and certain partner preferences.
(5) These properties are owned by Paradim.
(6) These properties were sold in January 1997.
(7) Property achieved stabilization on January 1, 1997 at an occupancy of 93.0%.
(8) Property is in the initial lease-up phase. Construction was completed in August 1996.
(9) Construction of this property was completed in March 1997.
(10) The development properties listed do not include a 12.6 acre tract of land in Orlando, Florida which the Company acquired in December 1996 for future development. A 320 unit multifamily residential community is planned for the site which, when completed, will be the second phase of the completed 272 unit Renaissance Pointe apartments.
The following table sets forth the total number of apartment units, weighted average occupancy and weighted average rental rate per apartment unit for each of the last five years for the Residential Properties as a whole:
- ---------------------------
(1) Represents the number of Residential Properties stabilized as of January 1 of the applicable year. A Residential Property is considered by the Company to have achieved stabilized occupancy on the earlier to occur of (i) attainment of 93% physical occupancy on the first day of any month or (ii) one year after the completion of construction. Information for the year ended December 31, 1996 reflects the acquisition of River Oaks and Habersham Pointe, the stabilization of Stone Creek and Heron Pointe and the sale of Turtle Creek I and Turtle Creek II. Information for the year ended December 31, 1995 includes the acquisition of Schooner Bay, Spanish Trace, The Overlook and Highpoint. Information for the year ended December 31, 1994 includes the acquisition of Pinehurst. Information for a year in which properties are acquired or become stabilized is included from the date of acquisition or stabilization through year end. Information for a year in which properties are sold is excluded. Information for the years ended December 31, 1993 and 1992 do not include information for the properties listed in this footnote which were acquired or became stabilized in a subsequent year.
Commercial Properties
Three of the Properties are Commercial Properties. The Commercial Properties consist of three office buildings (one in which the Company owns a 20% interest and two in which the Company owns a 10% interest containing a total of approximately 724,470 square feet of office space). One office building is located in St. Louis, Missouri and two in suburban Washington, D.C. One of the three Commercial Properties was developed by Paragon and the Company acquired an ownership interest in the remaining two properties in April, 1995. All of these properties were managed by PGPSI until the sale of the Company's commercial property services operations as of June 30, 1996. See "Item 1: BUSINESS - Recent Developments" above. The weighted average age of the Commercial Properties (adjusted to reflect the Company's ownership interests) is approximately 11.4 years. As of December 31, 1996, the Commercial Properties were 96.1% leased (adjusted to reflect the Company's ownership interests).
As a result of the sale of its commercial property services business, the Company disposed of its three wholly-owned commercial properties in the fourth quarter of 1996. The properties sold included one office building (The Paragon in St. Louis, Missouri containing 102,486 square feet) and two shopping centers (Westgate Centre in St. Louis, Missouri containing 58,935 square feet and Southwood Mall in Bradenton, Florida containing 113,949 square feet).
The following table sets forth certain information about each of the Commercial Properties that was owned by the Company as of December 31, 1996:
- -------------------------------
(1) Percent leased represents square footage leased at the end of the year.
(2) Annual base rent is calculated using base rents (which are the gross rents payable by tenants, before taking into account any tenant improvements, leasing concessions and expense stops) at December 31, 1996.
(3) Average base rent per leased square foot is equal to the annual base rent divided by the total leased square feet.
(4) For presentation of net effective rent for leases entered into for the three years ended December 31, 1996, see the table on page 13.
(5) The Company owns a 20% interest in Gateway, a 10% interest in Fair Oaks and a 10% interest in Shady Grove. Information for these properties with respect to the net rentable area, percent leased, average base rent per leased square foot and net effective rent is presented for the entire property and information with respect to annual base rent reflects the partial ownership interests.
(6) Weighted average, taking into account the Company's partial ownership in Gateway, Fair Oaks and Shady Grove.
The following table sets forth the net rentable area or gross leasable area, as applicable, percent leased and average base rent per leased square foot as of the end of each of the last five years for the Commercial Properties (including three wholly-owned commercial properties sold by the Company in the fourth quarter of 1996):
- -----------------
(1) As space is re-leased to new tenants, certain immaterial adjustments to net rentable area or gross leasable area may occur as a result of build-out adjustments for tenants. The total shown is used by the Company for consistency.
(2) Percent leased represents square footage leased at the end of the year.
(3) Weighted average percent leased, considering the Company's partial ownership interests in Gateway, Fair Oaks and Shady Grove.
(4) Average base rent per leased square foot is calculated using year-end base rent figures for the respective periods.
The following table sets forth a schedule of the lease expirations for leases in place as of December 31, 1996 for the Commercial Properties:
- -------------------------------
(1) Excludes 28,093 square feet of space not leased as of December 31, 1996. Net rentable area of expiring leases includes 100% of leases at Gateway, Fair Oaks and Shady Grove in which the Company owns a 20%, 10% and 10% interest, respectively. Annualized base rent includes 20%, 10% and 10% of rent attributable to leases at Gateway, Fair Oaks and Shady Grove, respectively, to reflect the Company's partial ownership interest.
(2) Annualized base rent is calculated using base rents as of December 31, 1996.
The following table sets forth certain additional leasing information with respect to all new leases for permanent space entered into at the Commercial Properties owned by the company at December 31, 1996, for the last three years:
- ------------------------
(1) Tenant Improvements/Commissions calculated as total cost of tenant improvements and leasing commissions, divided by square feet leased, divided by weighted average lease term.
(2) 1995 and 1994 only include properties owned as of December 31, 1996.
Property Services
Prior to the sale as of June 30, 1996 of the Company's commercial property services operations referred to in "Item 1: BUSINESS - Recent Developments" above, PGPSI provided a wide array of property services to the Properties, affiliates of PGPSI and the Company, and third-party clients, including property management, marketing, leasing, asset management, construction management and disposition services. As of December 31, 1995, PGPSI managed a total of 274 income-producing properties (including 61 properties owned by the Company) located in 20 states, consisting of 195 commercial properties and 79 multifamily residential communities. This management portfolio, which totaled approximately 26.4 million square feet of commercial space and 22,000 apartment units as of December 31, 1995, includes (i) 61 properties owned by the Company, (ii) 64 additional properties owned by affiliates of the Company and its executive officers and (iii) 149 properties owned by unaffiliated third-party owners.
PRSI has continued the residential property services operations of PGPSI, including its focus on maximizing the performance of each property under its management through proactive management that focuses on maintaining tenant satisfaction to reduce tenant rollover, aggressive reletting of apartment units and utilization of operating efficiencies as a result of the size of PRSI's management operations. In addition to providing the Company with an additional source of cash flow, providing property services to clients through PRSI enables the Company to achieve economies of scale in its management operations and to obtain in-depth knowledge about existing and new markets and submarkets, which provides the Company with greater information about future development and acquisition opportunities. As of December 31, 1996, PRSI managed 77 multifamily residential communities (including the Residential Properties) located across the United States containing approximately 21,696 apartment units.
Operating Information
For information relating to the Company's net income and other aspects of its results of operations, see the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements and Notes thereto and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere herein.
Mortgage Financing
The Properties are subject to existing mortgage indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount as of December 31, 1996 of $297.3 million, carrying a weighted average interest rate of 7.7% and a weighted average maturity of 5.8 years (assuming loans callable before maturity are called as early as possible). The existing mortgage indebtedness on the Properties is set forth in the table below:
- ---------------------------
(1) All of the mortgages can be prepaid at any time, in whole or in part, subject to prepayment penalties typically calculated on a yield maintenance basis, except for the mortgages encumbering Copper Creek (KY), Deerfield, Glen and Fairlane, which are closed to prepayment for varying lengths of time.
(2) The "Pool A Properties" are Grove, The Reserve, Broadmoor, Chasewood, Dolphin Pointe, Lookout Pointe, Post Oak, Sundance, Westchase Park, Westgate I, Westgate II, Copper Creek (NC), Falls and Chesapeake. The loan is secured by the Pool A Properties on a cross-collateralized basis.
(3) Information presented relates to the Series A bonds. The maturity date noted represents the date on which credit enhancement on the Series A bonds expires. The stated maturity date for the Series A bonds is June 1, 2023.
(4) Information presented relates to the Series B bonds which amortize over the life of the loan.
(5) Information presented relates to the Series B bonds. The maturity date noted represents the date on which credit enhancement on the Series B bonds expires. The stated maturity date for the Series B bonds is June 1, 2008.
(6) Information presented relates to the Series B bonds which amortize over the life of the loan. The balance reflects the principal balance which will be due at the date on which the credit enhancement on the bonds expires.
(7) Information presented relates to the Series A bonds. The maturity date noted represents the date on which credit enhancement on the Series A bonds expires. The stated maturity date for the Series A bonds is June 1, 2023.
(8) Information presented relates to the Series B bonds. The Series B bonds self-liquidate, with the final payment of principal due on December 1, 1998.
(9) Represents the rate in effect pursuant to an interest rate buy down agreement in effect through July 1999, after which time the rate will increase to 8.07%.
(10) The lender of the loan secured by this Property has a right to call the loan, and the Company will have the right to prepay the loan, on June 7, 1998. The stated maturity date for the note is June 1, 2003.
(11) In connection with the Initial Offering, the Company entered into an interest swap agreement. The agreement, which expires on January 27, 2000, effectively reduces the fixed interest rate on this note from 9.5% to 7.5%.
(12) The Nationwide debt is structured with three separate loan agreements. "Nationwide-North Carolina" is secured by Pinehurst. "Nationwide-Texas" is secured by Los Rios, Nob Hill and Brookfield. "Nationwide-Missouri" is secured by Tempo, Knollwood I, Knollwood II and The Cove at Westgate.
(13) The amount noted represents the annual debt service projected for 1997.
(14) Advances under the line of credit are secured by Properties that do not secure other mortgage loans. The principal balance shown represents the amount advanced and outstanding as of December 31, 1996. Annual debt service represents the amount projected for 1997, assuming no change in the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 1996.
(15) The mortgage indebtedness for properties owned by Paradim is not included in the table. The two completed properties are subject to mortgage indebtedness in the outstanding amount of $23,731,658 as of December 31, 1996. One property under construction is collateral for a construction loan from the Company in the outstanding amount of $9,723,075 at December 31, 1996. Under the terms of the loan agreement effective April 1, 1996, Paradim may borrow up to $11,500,000 from the Company for the property's construction.
Line of Credit
Concurrent with the Initial Offering, the Company obtained a line of credit facility in the amount of $75 million. The commitment was subsequently increased to $115 million and in December 1995 was reduced by the Company to $90 million and under certain conditions could be increased to $150 million. On July 27, 1996, the Company executed a renewal and modification of the line of credit facility. Under the terms of the new agreement, the Company may borrow up to $85 million including up to $50 million related to development activities. The line of credit matures in July 1998, but may be extended through July 1999 at the Company's option. Borrowings under the line of credit are collateralized by specified operating properties and properties under development. The interest rate on the amounts outstanding under the line are based on, at the Company's election, either (i) the greater of the prime rate or the
Federal Funds rate plus .50% or, (ii) the London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") plus 2.0% - 2.25%, depending on certain financial ratios concerning leverage and debt service coverage. The line of credit reprices, at the Company's discretion, in defined intervals ranging from 1 to 360 days. As the line of credit is drawn or reprices, the Company enters into a contract and selects the term and the interest rate option it desires. If the Company selects a contract based upon LIBOR plus 2.0% - 2.25%, then the interest rate becomes fixed for the term selected. Otherwise, the contract rate varies based upon the appropriate index.
At March 25, 1997, $42.7 million was outstanding under the line of credit in two separate contracts. One contract in the amount of $30.7 million is priced at 7.50% and the second contract in the amount of $12.0 million is priced at 7.69%. Both contracts reprice on April 16, 1997.
The Company anticipates that the line of credit will continue to be used primarily to fund development or acquisition of additional properties and for general working capital purposes.
Under the terms of the modified line of credit agreement, the Company is subject to the following financial covenants: 1) maintenance of a defined minimum tangible net worth, 2) limitation on the percentage of total liabilities to a calculated gross asset value, 3) coverage ratio requirement against interest expense, 4) coverage ratio requirement against debt service and defined capital expenditures, 5) limitations, which vary with each respective quarterly period, on partner distributions in excess of a defined percentage of funds from operations (as defined herein) buy the Operating Partnership, and 6) limitations on the percentage of certain investments to the calculated gross asset value.
Item 3.