ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 1996, the Company owned 49 apartment complexes (the "Properties") located in seven states. The Properties consist of garden or townhouse style apartments that appeal primarily to tenants with middle level incomes. Of the apartments, 2.5% are efficiency apartments, 58.1% are one-bedroom apartments, 38.9% are two-bedroom apartments and the remaining 0.5% are three-bedroom apartments. The Properties typically consist of two-and three-story buildings in a landscaped setting. The size of the apartments range from 400 to 2,000 square feet and average approximately 780 square feet.
Of the 49 Properties, 41 Properties containing 83% of the total number of apartments were constructed or substantially renovated since 1983. As of December 31, 1996, the weighted average age of the apartments (since date of construction or major renovation) is 6.35 years. The average number of apartments per Property is 297 apartments and the average monthly rent per apartment and per square foot during the twelve months ended December 31, 1996 was $515 and $0.66, respectively.
Tenant leases at the Properties are generally for six to twelve-month terms and require security deposits which range up to one month's rent. The Properties contain common area amenities, which may include swimming pools, clubhouses, tennis courts, security gates and extensive landscaping, and interior apartment amenities, such as vaulted ceilings, wood-burning fireplaces, washers/dryers, ceiling fans, microwaves, mini blinds, cable television connections and monitored security systems. The Company believes that the amenity packages at the Properties are comparable to those of competitive multifamily properties in their respective markets.
Fee title to each of the Properties is held in a property partnership (the "Property Partnership") in which the Operating Partnership or another direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company is a general partner. The Company (or a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company) and the Operating Partnership own 100% of the partnership interests in, and control, the Property Partnerships that own 34 of the Properties. The Company (or a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company) and the Operating Partnership own a 1% general partnership interest and 49.1% limited partnership interest in two partnerships that own 9 and 4 properties, respectively, (Ambassador I, L.P. and Ambassador VII, L.P. as further described, below). The Company (or a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company) and the Operating Partnership own a 50% and 49.9% general partnership interest, respectively, in the Property Partnerships that own the Williamsburg Property and the Brook Run Property. The third parties that own the remaining interests in these Property Partnerships have equal voting rights with respect to certain significant decisions of such partnerships. These two Property Partnerships are not consolidated in the Company's financial statements.
The following table presents certain information concerning the Company's Properties as of December 31, 1996:
PROFILE OF COMPANY'S PROPERTIES AT DECEMBER 31, 1996
(1) Major renovation ("Major Renovation") is defined as a renovation of a Property that includes one or more of the following which, in total, involve an aggregate expenditure of an amount not less than $2,000 times the number of apartments in the Property: roof replacement; resurfacing of parking lots; exterior painting; structural or exterior repairs; replacement of appliances or carpeting; and installation, repair or replacement of Property-wide amenities. (2) Occupancy is defined as the number of occupied apartments divided by the total number of apartments, expressed as a percentage. Average occupancy for any period represents the average of the monthly occupancies over such period. Occupancy for a month represents the occupancy as set forth on the rent roll as of the close of the monthly accounting period. "Occupied apartments" includes all apartments occupied by tenants under an effective lease. (3) Average monthly rent per apartment for any property for any period is defined as (a) the total rental revenue for the period divided by the number of months in the period, divided by (b) the product of (i) occupancy at the Property during such period (defined in note (2) above) times (ii) the number of apartments in the Property. (4) Properties purchased by the Company in 1996 did not have certain historical operating data for years prior to 1996. The Company was able to obtain unaudited operating statistics for each month of 1996 to arrive at the year end occupancies and rental rates. * These properties contain ACM's and or PCB's as described on
The following property was acquired by the Company in 1997:
- ----------------------
(a) Reflects occupancy/rent as of March 13, 1997, date of acquisition.
MORTGAGE AND TAX-EXEMPT BOND FINANCING
OVERVIEW
As of December 31, 1996, the aggregate indebtedness of the Company was approximately $359.3 million, of which $279.4 million (77.8%) was long-term tax-exempt bond financing (secured, directly or indirectly, by mortgages on the Properties). The Properties are subject to mortgage indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount of $387.6 million, which includes $28.3 million of variable rate tax-exempt indebtedness secured by the two Properties in which the Company has an approximately 50% general partnership interest. The Property Partnerships owning these two Properties are not consolidated in the Company's financial statements. Of this debt of unconsolidated Property Partnerships, 100% of the Williamsburg Property and $10.0 million of the $11.8 million of Brook Run Property is nonrecourse to the Company, the Operating Partnership or the relevant Property Partnership. See "Indebtedness of Unconsolidated Partnerships". Below is a schedule summarizing the Company's indebtedness.
* Includes interest at fixed rate or at swap rate under applicable hedge agreements, fees for credit enhancement, remarketing, servicing and trustee services. ** All variable rate tax exempt debt is covered by interest rate swaps as follows: All variable rate bonds except for Arbors and Ocean Oaks - 4.636% for 7 years with Credit Lyonnais, New York Branch. Arbors and Ocean Oaks - 4.850% for 7 years with Goldman Sachs. *** Annual Debt Service includes interest and deposits to reserve funds for tax exempt bond financing and actual debt amortization for conventional financing. $243,994,000 of the $387,629,000 of total indebtedness is fully amortizing on amortization schedules ranging from 25 to 30 years. (A) Crossings of Bellevue has received a commitment from FNMA to credit enhance the bonds under the FNMA Facility, as defined below. It is anticipated that the bonds will be refunded as variable rate bonds prior to May 1, 1997.
(B) These bonds (which aggregate $39.0 million of face amount) are owned by a trust in which the Company, through the Operating Partnership, is a member of an LLC that is a partner in the trust. The Company receives interest in excess of distributions paid to other partners in the trust. Those other partners receive tax exempt interest as follows:
$27 million @ 6.5% $10 million @ 12 % --- ---- $37 million 7.99% average
The trust purchased the bonds for $37.5 million. The LLC in which the Company is a member holds the remaining $1.95 million.
(C) The Revolving Loan from Bank One carries interest rates ranging from 170 to 195 basis points over 30 day LIBOR, depending upon the Company's Interest Coverage Ratio. The properties included in the Revolving Loan as of December 31, 1996 are Trails of Ashford, Sandalwood, Pine Shadows, Heather Ridge, LaJolla De Tucson, Hidden Lakes, Woodlands, Crossroads, Courtney Park and Country Club West. See "Recent Developments" for refinances of certain of the properties in the Revolving Loan.
(D) The Falls of Bells Ferry Bonds are one year fixed rate bonds whose interest is reset annually.
TAX EXEMPT DEBT
The interest rates on approximately $188.2 million of the Company's total variable rate tax-exempt bond financing as of December 31, 1996 are determined weekly by a remarketing agent to equal the minimum interest rate necessary for the bonds to be remarketed at par. While these bonds are remarketed at variable rates, the Company has hedged itself against interest rate fluctuations (See "Interest Rate Protection"). Each issue of variable rate bonds is secured by a letter of credit or similar instrument (referred to as "credit enhancement") issued by a bank or other financial institution (a "credit enhancer"). The purpose of the credit enhancement is to secure the borrower's obligation to pay principal and interest on the bonds and to permit the bonds to receive an investment-grade rating, thereby lowering the interest costs from those of an unrated debt instrument. If a credit enhancer advances money under its credit
enhancement commitment to pay principal and interest on the bonds, the related Property Partnership will be obligated to reimburse the credit enhancer, which obligation generally will be secured by a mortgage on the related property. If the Property Partnership fails to so reimburse a credit enhancer, the credit enhancer may foreclose on the Properties that secure that reimbursement obligation. Each credit enhancement agreement terminates on a specified date that is prior to the maturity date of the related bonds. When the existing credit enhancement expires and if the Property Partnership does not obtain replacement credit enhancement prior to that date, the variable rate bonds will be subject to a mandatory tender. Furthermore, if the credit rating of a credit enhancer is lowered, the interest cost of the bonds affected will increase or the bonds evidencing the debt could be unmarketable.
A bondholder may tender the bonds during the variable rate interest period and receive principal, plus accrued interest through the tender date. Upon tender, the remarketing agent will immediately remarket the bonds. In the event the remarketing agent fails to remarket any of the bonds, the Partnership is obligated to purchase those bonds for which they may draw on the credit enhancement. The remarketing agent receives a fee of between 0.08% and 0.125% per annum on the outstanding bonds' balance, payable quarterly in arrears on $188.2 million of variable rate tax-exempt bonds which are reset weekly, and 0.325% on $28.9 million of fixed rate tax-exempt bonds which are reset annually. Such fees are included as financing fees in the consolidated and combined statements of operations.
CREDIT ENHANCEMENT OF TAX-EXEMPT BONDS
Of the Company's total $307.7 million in tax-exempt bonds outstanding (including unconsolidated joint ventures of the Company) as of December 31, 1996, $295.7 million are credit enhanced by one of five credit enhancement providers. $17.4 million are credit enhanced by Financial Security Assurance ("FSA") for a term of 30 years, $186.5 million are credit enhanced by FNMA for a term of 25 years, $28.9 million are enhanced by Guardian Federal Savings Bank through February, 2009, $11.8 million will be financed by Financial Guarantee Insurance Company ("FGIC") through November 2004, $27.0 million is credit enhanced by Bank One, Arizona through August 1997, and additional amounts of $15.5 million and $8.6 million are credit enhanced by FNMA through October, 2025 and May, 1997, respectively. These credit enhancement facilities are described in more detail below.
On October 1, 1996, FSA provided credit enhancement, through Insurance and Indemnity Agreements, for the Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor bonds (the "Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor Bonds") in the amount of $4.3 million and $6.0 million, respectively (see "Tax-Exempt Bonds Issued In 1996"). On December 1, 1996, FSA also provided $7.2 million of credit enhancement for the benefit of the Madera Point bonds (the "Madera Point Bonds"), which allowed the Company to sell the bonds that it purchased when it acquired the Madera Point Property on February 9, 1996. The credit enhancement provides the bonds with 30 years of credit enhancement currently rated AAA. Under the terms of the credit enhancement agreements, the Company was required to prepay 10 years of credit enhancement fees (approximately $776,000), which is included in other assets and will be expensed over a ten year period. At the end of the tenth year, an annual insurance premium will be due in the amount of 0.6% payable monthly in advance on the face amount of the Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor Bonds and the Madera Point Bonds. The Insurance and Indemnity Agreements have expiration dates consistent with the redemption dates of the bonds themselves, which begin on June 1, 2006 with final maturity of the bonds on June 1 and December 1, 2026. The Company used $8.7
million of the proceeds from the Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor Bonds to repay the Revolving Loan and the remaining $1.6 million to fund issuance costs associated with the transaction and capital improvements on the two properties. Proceeds from the sale of the Madera Point Bonds were used to augment working capital.
On December 18, 1996, the Company replaced its letters of credit previously held by Bank of America, Bank One, Arizona and CLNY on approximately $186.5 million of existing variable rate tax-exempt bonds associated with 22 of its properties (including Williamsburg) with a single facility (The, "FNMA Facility") issued by FNMA. FNMA has established three separate mortgage pools as collateral for providing credit enhancement on the bonds. The first collateral pool consist of $119.8 million of variable rate tax-exempt bonds relating to 13 Properties owned by Ambassador VIII, L.P. The second collateral pool consist of $50.2 million of variable rate tax-exempt bonds relating to eight Properties owned by Ambassador I, L.P. The third collateral pool consists of $16.5 million of variable rate tax-exempt bonds relating to the Williamsburg Property. FNMA is entitled to credit enhancement fees on the FNMA Facility at a weighted average rate of 1.04% per annum of the outstanding bond amount, less any cash collateral. FNMA also receives a reserve fee of 0.375% per annum on the amount of cash collateral posted with respect to the FNMA Facility. The credit enhancement and reserve fees are payable monthly in advance. As additional collateral, the Company also deposited $15.2 million into an interest bearing escrow account. The Company is also making monthly principal reserve payments of approximately $245,000 to FNMA which may be used to redeem bonds. The FNMA facility matures on December 1, 2021.
TAX-EXEMPT BONDS ISSUED IN 1996
On April 17, 1996 and November 13, 1996, the Harris County Housing Finance Corporation issued $4.3 million and $14.6 million in tax-exempt bonds for the benefit of Cypress Ridge and The Mills Properties, respectively. On May 1, 1996 and November 26, 1996, Travis County Housing Finance Corporation and Bexar County Housing Finance Corporation issued $6.0 million and $2.3 million in tax exempt bonds for the benefit of Broadmoor and Shallow Creek Properties, respectively. Collectively these four bond issues comprise the "1996 Bonds". The Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor bonds are credit enhanced by FSA and The Mills and Shallow Creek Bonds are credit enhanced by FNMA. See "Credit Enhancement; Tax-Exempt Debt".
The Mills and Shallow Creek bonds bear interest at a floating rate that is reset weekly by the remarketing agent at the minimum rate required to remarket the bonds at par. The Mills and Shallow Creek bonds were issued to finance, in part, the purchase of The Mills and Shallow Creek Properties and to provide approximately $2.5 million for the renovation of such properties. In addition, the Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor Bonds bear interest at a fixed rate ranging from 5.7% to 6.35% depending upon the maturity of each series of bonds (as defined in the Insurance and Indemnity Agreement). The Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor Bonds were issued to finance, in part, the purchase of the Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor Properties and to provide approximately $2.0 million for the renovation of such properties.
A portion of the proceeds of the 1996 Bonds were released to the Company to reimburse it for acquisition costs of the Properties and the remainder of the proceeds were released to the Company as actual expenses were incurred with respect to renovation of the properties. The renovation of these properties is expected to consist generally of roof repairs, siding, painting and carpeting of apartments, parking lot repair and appliance replacements. The Company anticipates
that this work will be completed within two years from the respective dates of issue of the 1996 Bonds (as required by the Internal Revenue Code), and will be accomplished without displacement of existing residents. The Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor Bonds are subject to mandatory redemption dates with maturities that begin on June 1, 2006 with final maturity of the bonds on June 1, 2026. The Mills and Shallow Creek bonds mature December 15, 2026.
PURCHASE OF TAX-EXEMPT BONDS
On February 9, 1996, the Company acquired the Madera Point Property for $11.0 million. Madera Point is a 256 unit apartment complex located in Mesa, Arizona. As part of the purchase price, the Company acquired the $8.1 million fixed rate Madera Point Bonds which are collateralized by the Madera Point Property. On December 1, 1996 the Company sold a $7.2 million portion of the Madera Point Bonds. Under the terms of the bond loan agreement, the Company is making interest payments at a fixed rate of 5.3% to 5.9% depending upon the maturity date of each series of bonds. Credit enhancement of the Madera Point Bonds is provided by FSA. See "Credit Enhancement of Tax-Exempt Bonds. The Madera Point Bonds are subject to mandatory redemption dates beginning on June 1, 2006 with final maturity of the bonds on June 1, 2026. The Company intends to sell the remaining $945,000 in Madera Point Bonds as fixed rate without credit enhancement.
On May 23, 1996, the Company acquired the Stonybrook Property and assumed its $4.1 million fixed rate tax-exempt bonds (the "Stonybrook Bonds") for $8.9 million. Stonybrook is a 411 unit apartment complex located in Tucson, Arizona. The Company financed this acquisition of the property and the bonds by borrowing the remainder under its line of credit. Under the terms of the bond loan agreement, the Company currently makes interest payments and principal redemption. As a result of the remarketing which occurred on October 1, 1994, the interest rate was reset to 7.375% through the maturity date of the bonds, which is October 1, 1999. On October 1, 1996, 1997 and 1998 the Stonybrook Bonds are subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption of $45,000, $50,000 and $50,000, respectively. At December 31, 1996, the Company owned the Stonybrook Bonds. The Company expects to remarket the Stonybrook Bonds as fixed rate certificates without credit enhancement.
ASSUMPTION OF TAX-EXEMPT BONDS
On August 20, 1996, the Company acquired four properties: Haverhill Commons, Village Crossing, The Arbors and Ocean Oaks, (collectively, the "Florida Properties"), for $38.6 million. Haverhill Commons is a 189 unit apartment complex located in West Palm Beach, Florida; Village Crossing is a 222 unit apartment complex which is also located in West Palm Beach, Florida; The Arbors is a 224 unit property located in Deland, Florida and Ocean Oaks is a 296 unit apartment complex located in Port Orange, Florida. The acquisition of the Florida Properties was financed through the assumption of the Florida Bonds, as defined below. The remaining $1.1 million, including closing costs, were funded under the Revolving Loan. The Company, through GP Municipal Holdings, LLC, an Illinois limited liability company in which the Operating Partnership is a member ("G.P. Holdings") acquired the $39.0 million in face amount of the tax exempt bonds encumbering the four properties (the "Florida Bonds") for $37.5 million. The Company financed the acquisition of the Florida Properties and the Florida Bonds with proceeds from the Revolving Loan.
The interest rate on $9.8 million and $10.9 million of the Florida Bonds, which encumber the Village Crossing and Haverhill Commons Properties, respectively, is reset annually by the remarketing agent on December 1 of each year. At December 31, 1996 the rate is 8.5% (pay rate of
6.0% and 2.5% deferred rate) and is paid monthly in arrears. Deferred interest, if any, is paid every August 1, and February 1. These bonds were issued by Housing Finance Authority of Palm Beach County and have a maturity date of December 1, 2007. Interest on $7.3 million and $10.9 million of Florida Bonds, which encumber the Arbors and Ocean Oaks Properties, respectively, is currently calculated using a variable rate determined by the remarketing agent of the bonds. The interest rate is currently reset on a weekly basis. These bonds were issued by Housing Finance Authority of Volusia County and have a maturity date of August 1, 2015.
Concurrent with the acquisition of the Florida Properties, the Company, through G.P. Holdings, contributed its interest in the Florida Bonds to TEB Municipal Trust I, a New York Trust ("TEB") in which G.P. Holdings is the managing depositor. TEB sold $27.0 million in Class A Receipt of beneficial interests in TEB. The Class A Receipt is credit enhanced by Bank One, Akron and is priced as AA rated, seven day variable rate tax-exempt bonds. The interest rate on the Class A Receipt is swapped for seven years at 4.85% with Goldman Sachs. On October 25, 1996, TEB sold the $10.0 million Class B Receipt to a group of individual investors. The Class B Receipt earns interest at a fixed rate of 12% per annum, paid monthly. G.P. Holdings holds the remaining $2.0 million Class G Receipt which earns interest equal to the excess of interest earned by TEB ownership of the Florida Bonds over distributions paid to the Class A and Class B Receipt holders. Under the terms of the LLC agreement, the Company receives 100% of any excess cash flows, as defined, from G.P. Holdings.
On October 1, 1996, the Company acquired the Crossings of Bellevue for $15.8 million. Crossings of Bellevue is a 300 unit apartment complex located in Bellevue, Tennessee. The Company financed this acquisition by assuming $8.6 million of variable rate tax-exempt bonds (the "Bellevue Bonds") and borrowed the remainder under its Bank One Loan. Under the terms of the Bellevue Bonds note agreement, the Company currently makes monthly principal and interest payments based on a 30 year amortization. The Bellevue Bonds bear interest at 9.3% and were issued by The Industrial Development Board of the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County. The Bellevue Bonds are guaranteed by FNMA and mature on May 1, 1997. The Company has received a commitment from FNMA to include the Bellevue Bonds under the FNMA Facility thereby making them variable rate with interest reset on a weekly basis.
On November 21, 1996, the Company acquired Sun Lake apartments for $24.3 million. Sun Lake is a 600 unit apartment complex located in Lake Mary, Florida. The Company financed this acquisition by assuming $15.5 million of variable rate, tax-exempt bonds (the "Sun Lake Bonds") and borrowed the remainder under its Bank One Loan. Under the terms of the Sun Lake Bonds note agreement, the Company currently makes monthly principal and interest payment based on a 30 year amortization. The Sun Lake Bonds bear interest at 6.49% and were issued by the Orange County Housing Finance Authority. The Sun Lake Bonds are also guaranteed by FNMA and mature on November 1, 2005.
INTEREST RATE PROTECTION
As of December 31, 1996, the Company has hedged against fluctuations in interest rates on all of the $213.5 million of the Company's variable rate tax exempt debt and variable rate tax exempt certificates through October 3, 2003. On December 9, 1996, the Company entered into a swap transaction with CLNY in which the Company pays a fixed rate of 4.636% on a notional amount of $186.5 million and
receives a floating rate based upon the PSA Municipal Swap Index. This swap agreement matures on December 9, 2003 and replaced two LIBOR based swaps the Company had previously entered into with Nomura Capital Services, Inc. ("NCSI") ($94 million entered into on May 26, 1995 and $17.0 million on March 14, 1996).
On October 3, 1996, the Company entered into a swap transaction with Goldman Sachs to hedge against fluctuations in the variable interest rate on the Class A Receipts in TEB. Under the swap transaction, the Company pays a fixed rate of 6.83% on a notional amount of $26.5 million and receives a floating rate equal to 90 day LIBOR. This swap results in an effective interest rate on the $27.0 million in certificates of 4.85%. Management believes that there is a reasonable correlation between changes in the LIBOR rate (on which, the fixed rate the Company pays, was based) and the J.J. Kenny Index (an index of AA rated variable rate tax exempt bonds). Since 1981, the Kenny Index has averaged approximately 72.5% of 30 day LIBOR.
In order to hedge against variations in the relationship between LIBOR and the Kenny Index the Company entered into a three year swap on March 14, 1996 with NCSI in which the Company pays a floating rate equal to 71% of 30 day LIBOR and receives a floating rate equal to the J.J. Kenny Index on a notional amount of $130 million (the "Basis Risk Swap"). On November 26, 1996 this swap was assigned from NCSI to Salomon Brothers Holding Company. The excess in notional amount of swaps ($6.0 million LIBOR and $103.0 million in Basis Risk Swap) is currently unallocated and will be used to hedge against variable interest rate risk on future bond indebtedness.
The Company has adopted a policy regarding the hedging of total variable rate debt. This policy provides that at no time will the Company have more than 30% of its variable rate debt that is not hedged by an interest rate cap, swap or other interest rate protection agreement. In addition, the Company will maintain a 1.3 times debt service coverage ratio based upon (a) hedged debt at the applicable interest rate cap and swap strike prices and (b) unhedged debt at a rate of 10% per annum. As of December 31, 1996 and March 24, 1997, the Company has successfully hedged all of its variable rate tax-exempt debt through the interest rate swap transaction. This policy may be changed from time to time by the Board of Directors in its discretion. As of December 31, 1996 and March 24, 1997, the Company had $64.0 million and $38.8 million, respectively, in variable rate debt that was not hedged by any interest rate protection and was in compliance with the foregoing policies. With respect to all variable rate tax-exempt debt outstanding as of March 24, 1997, all of which is hedged, an increase in short-term tax-exempt rates of 1% would not affect funds from operating activities (assuming exchange of all Common Units and after taking into consideration the effect of the interest swap transactions).
RECOURSE OBLIGATIONS
All of the Company's $279.4 million of tax-exempt mortgage debt as of December 31, 1996, is considered nonrecourse, although certain mortgages are cross-defaulted or cross-collateralized with other mortgages or Properties. In addition, the Operating Partnership has a recourse obligation with respect to its borrowings under the Revolving Loan pursuant to the Company's agreement to guarantee repayment of such borrowings.
THE REVOLVING LOAN
Concurrently with the Offering, the Company entered into an agreement for a revolving credit facility (the "Nomura Revolving Loan") with Nomura Asset Capital Corporation ("Nomura") for approximately $43.5 million (subsequently increased to $100.0 million) with a recourse guarantee from the Operating Partnership (or the Company, if the Operating Partnership ceases to exist). Borrowings under this facility bore interest at a floating rate equal to 1.75% per annum above the 30-day LIBOR.
On June 26, 1996 the Company refinanced the Nomura Revolving Loan with Bank One, Arizona, NA (the "Bank One Loan"). The Bank One Loan bears interest between LIBOR plus 1.70% and LIBOR plus 1.90% (as defined in the Bank One Loan Credit Agreement) and has a maximum commitment of $75.0 million based upon the amount of collateral pledged by the Company. As of December 31, 1996, the amount available under the Bank One Loan is approximately $64.0 million; the amount available will be increased as additional properties are added to the collateral pool. As of December 31, 1996, ten properties are pledged as collateral under the Bank One Loan and $64.0 million is outstanding. The Bank One Loan matures on June 26, 1999; however, the Company may request one year extensions pursuant to the terms of the agreement. The Nomura Revolving Loan and the Bank One Loan are collectively referred to as (the "Revolving Loan")
INDEBTEDNESS OF UNCONSOLIDATED PARTNERSHIPS
As of December 31, 1996, the unconsolidated Property Partnerships had total debt outstanding of $28.3 million, all of which is long-term tax-exempt financing (secured, directly or indirectly, by mortgages on the related Properties). The Property Partnership that owns the Williamsburg Property has outstanding $16.5 million of which 100% is non recourse. The Property Partnership that owns the Brook Run Property has outstanding $11.8 million of bonds that bear interest of 5.375% per annum, with an all-in cost of approximately 5.88%. This debt is marketed based on credit enhancement that is supported by a recourse standby purchase agreement from the unaffiliated third party partner that owns, through a subsidiary, 50% of the partnership interests in the Property Partnership. The credit enhancement expired on November 30, 1995 and the Property Partnership acquired $11.8 million of the tax-exempt bonds. A general partner of the Property Partnership provided the financing to enable it to acquire such bonds. The Company's Management is currently in negotiations with FGIC to provide credit enhancement and has received a commitment from FGIC to do so. The Company expects to have the new credit enhancement in place in April 1997. The interest rate on the temporary financing provided by the Property Partnership's general partner is prime plus 1%. The standby purchase agreement expires on November 30, 2003. The standby purchase provider will have recourse to the Operating Partnership (or the Company, if the Operating Partnership ceases to exist) for any loss to it with respect to the $11.8 million of bonds, but this recourse will be limited to an amount equal to one-half of 30% of the principal amount of the bonds relating to the Brook Run property, as such amount may be reduced by redemption or other early repayment other than in connection with the application of proceeds of any collateral securing such bonds or credit enhancement, plus one-half of 30% of all accrued and unpaid interest due and owing with respect to such bonds plus all costs and expenses of enforcing such recourse obligation.
ITEM 3.