ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
As of December 31, 1997, the Company owned 52 apartment complexes (the "Properties") located in seven states. The Properties consist of garden or townhouse style apartments that appeal primarily to tenants with middle level incomes. Of the apartments, 2.2% are efficiency apartments, 59% are one-bedroom apartments, 38.3% are two-bedroom apartments and the remaining .5% are three-bedroom apartments. The Properties typically consist of two-and three-story buildings in a landscaped setting. The size of the apartments range from 400 to 2,000 square feet and average approximately 780 square feet.
The average number of apartments per Property is 302 and the average monthly rent per apartment and per square foot during the twelve months ended December 31, 1997 was $567 and $0.72, respectively.
Tenant leases at the Properties are generally for six to twelve-month terms and require security deposits which range up to one month's rent. The Properties contain common area amenities, which may include swimming pools, clubhouses, tennis courts, security gates and extensive landscaping, and interior apartment amenities, such as vaulted ceilings, wood-burning fireplaces, washers/dryers, ceiling fans, microwaves, mini blinds, cable television connections and monitored security systems. The Company believes that the amenity packages at the Properties are comparable to those of competitive multifamily properties in their respective markets.
Fee title to each of the Properties is held in a property partnership (the "Property Partnership") in which the Operating Partnership or another direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company is a general partner. The Company (or a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company) and the Operating Partnership own 100% of the partnership interests in, and control, the Property Partnerships that own 37 of the Properties. The Company (or a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company) and the Operating Partnership own a 1% general partnership interest and 49.1% general partnership interest in two partnerships that own 9 and 4 properties, respectively, (Ambassador I, L.P. and Ambassador VII, L.P. as further described, below). The Company (or a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company) and the Operating Partnership own a 50% and 49.9% general partnership interest, respectively, in the Property Partnerships that own the Williamsburg Property and the Brook Run Property. The third parties that own the remaining interests in these Property Partnerships have
equal voting rights with respect to certain significant decisions of such partnerships. The operations and results of these two Property Partnerships are not consolidated in the Company's financial statements.
The following table presents certain information concerning the Company's Properties as of December 31, 1997:
(1) Major renovation ("Major Renovation") is defined as a renovation of a Property that includes one or more of the following which, in total, involve an aggregate expenditure of an amount not less than $2,000 times the number of apartments in the Property: roof replacement; resurfacing of parking lots; exterior painting; structural or exterior repairs; replacement of appliances or carpeting; and installation, repair or replacement of Property-wide amenities.
(2) Occupancy is defined as the number of occupied apartments divided by the total number of apartments, expressed as a percentage. Average occupancy for any period represents the average of the monthly occupancies over such period. Occupancy for a month represents the occupancy as set forth on the rent roll as of the close of the monthly accounting period. "Occupied apartments" includes all apartments occupied by tenants under an effective lease.
(3) Average monthly rent per apartment for any property for any period is defined as (a) the total gross potential rent rental revenue for the period divided by the number of months in the period, divided by (b) the product of (i) occupancy at the Property during such period (defined in note (2) above) times (ii) the number of apartments in the Property.
(4) Properties purchased by the Company in 1997 did not have certain historical operating data for years prior to 1997. Average occupancy and rental rates are computed based upon the number of months the property was owned by the Company.
* These properties contain ACMs and or PCBs as described on page 7.
MORTGAGE AND BOND FINANCING
OVERVIEW
As of December 31, 1997, the aggregate indebtedness of the Company was approximately $387.6 million, of which $313.1 million (80.8%) was long-term bond financing (secured, directly
or indirectly, by mortgages on the Properties). All of the Company's long-term bond financing is considered non-recourse, although certain mortgages are cross-defaulted or cross-collateralized with other mortgages or properties, and there are certain aspects of the financing for which the lender has recourse to the corporate credit of the Company. The Properties are subject to mortgage indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount of $415.9 million, which includes $28.3 million of variable rate tax-exempt indebtedness secured by the two Properties in which the Company has an approximately 50% general partnership interest. The results of the Property Partnerships owning these two Properties are not consolidated in the Company's financial statements. Of the debt of unconsolidated Property Partnerships, 100% of the Williamsburg Property debt and $10.0 million of the $11.8 million of Brook Run Property debt is nonrecourse to the Company, the Operating Partnership or the relevant Property Partnership. See "Indebtedness of Unconsolidated Partnerships". Below is a schedule summarizing the Company's indebtedness.
* Includes interest at fixed rate or at swap rate under applicable hedge agreements, fees for credit enhancement, remarketing, servicing and trustee services.
** All bonds with variable interest rates are protected with interest rate swaps or caps.
*** Annual debt service includes interest and deposits to reserve funds for bond financing and actual debt amortization for conventional financing. $237,172,000 of the $387,649,000 of total indebtedness is fully amortizing on amortization schedules ranging from 25 to 30 years.
(A) The Falls of Bells Ferry Bonds are twenty five year bonds whose interest rate is reset annually.
(B) These bonds are owned by a trust in which the Company, through the Operating Partnership, is a member of an LLC that is a partner in such trust. The Company receives interest in excess of distributions paid to other certificate holders in the trust, who receive tax-exempt interest at 9.5%.
(C) The Secured Line of Credit from Nomura Asset Capital Corporation ("NACC") bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.50%. The properties included as collateral under the Secured Line of Credit
\
as of December 31, 1997 are Pine Shadows, Heather Ridge, LaJolla De Tucson, Hidden Lakes, Legend Oaks, and Cedar Creek.
(D) The Unsecured Line of Credit from CLNY bears interest at the Prime rate plus 1.25% or, at the option of the Company, the Eurorate plus 2.25% or LIBOR plus 2.25%.
BOND FINANCING
The interest rates on approximately $233.9 million of the Company's total variable rate bond financing as of December 31, 1997 are determined weekly by a remarketing agent to equal the minimum interest rate necessary for the bonds to be remarketed at par. While these bonds are remarketed at variable rates, the Company has entered into interest rate protection agreements to protect itself against increases in interest rates (See "Interest Rate Protection"). Each issue of variable rate bonds is secured by a letter of credit or similar instrument (referred to as "credit enhancement") issued by a bank or other financial institution (a "credit enhancer"). The purpose of the credit enhancement is to secure the borrower's obligation to pay principal and interest on the bonds and to permit the bonds to receive an investment-grade rating, thereby lowering the Company's interest costs from those of an unrated debt instrument. If a credit enhancer advances money under its credit enhancement commitment to pay principal and interest on the bonds, the related Property Partnership will be obligated to reimburse the credit enhancer, which obligation generally will be secured by a mortgage on the related property. If the Property Partnership fails to so reimburse a credit enhancer, the credit enhancer may foreclose on the Property that secures that reimbursement obligation. Each credit enhancement agreement terminates on a specified date that is at or prior to the maturity date of the related bonds. When the existing credit enhancement expires and if the Property Partnership does not obtain replacement credit enhancement prior to that date, the variable rate bonds will be subject to a mandatory tender. Furthermore, if the credit rating of a credit enhancer is lowered, the interest cost of the bonds affected will increase or the bonds evidencing the debt could become unmarketable.
A bondholder may tender the bonds during the variable rate interest period and receive principal, plus accrued interest through the tender date. Upon tender, the remarketing agent will immediately remarket the bonds. In the event the remarketing agent fails to remarket any of the bonds, the Partnership is obligated to purchase those bonds for which they may draw on the credit enhancement. The remarketing agent receives a fee of 0.08% per annum on the outstanding bonds' balance, payable quarterly in arrears on $233.9 million of variable bonds which are reset weekly, and 0.325% per annum on $28.3 million of fixed rate, tax-exempt bonds which are reset annually. Such fees are included as financing fees in the consolidated statements of operations.
At December 31, 1997, the Company had approximately $79.2 million of fixed rate, tax-exempt bond financing as described in the table above.
CREDIT ENHANCEMENT OF BONDS
Of the Company's total $341.4 million in bonds outstanding (including $28.3 million of unconsolidated debt relating to joint ventures of the Company) as of December 31, 1997, $323.3 million are credit enhanced by one of five credit enhancement providers. $17.4 million are credit enhanced by Financial Security Assurance ("FSA") for a term through June, 2026; $216.4 million are credit enhanced by FNMA for a term through December, 2021; $28.3 million are credit enhanced by Guardian Federal Savings Bank through February, 2009; $11.8 million are credit enhanced by Financial Guarantee Insurance Company ("FGIC") through November 2004; $34.0 million are credit enhanced by CLNY through October, 2002; and an additional $15.3 million are guaranteed by FNMA through October, 2025. These credit enhancement facilities are described in more detail below. The remaining $18.1 million of bonds are not credit enhanced.
FSA has provided credit enhancement, through Insurance and Indemnity Agreements, for the Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor bonds in the amount of $4.3 million and $6.0 million, respectively. FSA has also provided $7.2 million of credit enhancement for the benefit of the Madera Point bonds (the "Class A Madera Bonds"), which allowed the Company to sell the bonds that it purchased when it acquired the Madera Point Property on February 9, 1996. The credit enhancement provides the bonds with 30 years of AA rated credit enhancement. Under the terms of the credit enhancement agreements, the Company was required to prepay 10 years of credit enhancement fees (approximately $776,000), which is included in other assets and is being expensed over a ten year period. At the end of the tenth year, an annual insurance premium will be due in the amount of 0.6% per annum payable monthly in advance on the face amount of the Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor bonds and the Madera Point bonds. The Insurance and Indemnity Agreements have expiration dates consistent with the redemption dates of the bonds themselves, which begin on June 1, 2006 with final maturity of the bonds on June 1, 2026. The Company used $8.7 million of the proceeds from the Cypress Ridge and Broadmoor bonds to repay the NACC Revolving Loan and the remaining $1.6 million to fund issuance costs associated with the transaction and capital improvements on the two properties. Proceeds from the sale of the Madera Point bonds were used to augment working capital.
As of December 31, 1997, the Company had credit enhanced approximately $216.4 million of existing variable rate bonds associated with 28 of its properties (including Williamsburg) with a single facility (the "FNMA Facility") issued by FNMA. FNMA has established three separate mortgage pools as collateral for providing credit enhancement on the bonds. The first collateral pool consists of $149.7 million of variable rate bonds relating to 18 properties owned by Ambassador VIII, L.P. The second collateral pool consists of $50.2 million of variable rate tax-exempt bonds relating to nine Properties owned by Ambassador I, L.P. The third collateral pool consists of $16.5 million of variable rate tax-exempt bonds relating to the Williamsburg Property. FNMA is entitled to credit enhancement fees on the FNMA Facility at a weighted average rate of 1.04% per annum of the outstanding bond amount, less any cash collateral. FNMA also receives a reserve fee of 0.38% per annum on the amount of cash collateral posted with respect to the FNMA Facility. The credit enhancement and reserve fees are payable monthly in advance. As of December 31, 1997, the Company posted additional collateral in the form of a Standby Commitment (see "Recent
Developments") and a $6.0 million cash deposit into an interest bearing escrow account. The Company is also making monthly principal reserve payments (approximately $326,000 during 1997) to FNMA which may be used to redeem bonds. The FNMA Facility matures on December 1, 2021.
BONDS ISSUED IN 1997
The Company pursues a strategy of financing its property acquisitions and rehabilitation costs from the proceeds of bonds issued by local government authorities. Proceeds of bonds issued in 1997 were primarily used by the Company to reimburse it for acquisition costs of the Properties and expenses incurred with respect to renovation costs. The renovation of these properties consists generally of roof repairs, siding, painting and carpeting of apartments, parking lot repair and appliance replacements.
On October 27, 1997, the Housing Finance Authority of Palm Beach County, Florida and The Housing Finance Authority of Volusia County, Florida issued $16.1 million and $17.9 million, respectively, of variable-rate tax exempt bonds (the "Florida Bonds") for the benefit of the Haverhill Commons, Village Crossing, Arbors and Ocean Oaks Properties. The Florida Bonds are rated AA+/A-1+ and bear interest at a floating rate that is reset weekly by the remarketing agent at the minimum rate required to remarket the bonds at par. The Florida Bonds mature on October 1, 2027. The Florida Bonds are credit enhanced by four separate letters of credit aggregating $34.5 million from CLNY and a corresponding confirming letter of credit issued by Republic Bank of New York. Under the terms of the CLNY letter of credit agreement, CLNY was paid an origination fee of $345,030 and is also entitled to a letter of credit fee of 1.5% per annum of the stated amount of the letters of credit payable monthly in arrears. An additional fee of 0.25% per annum of the stated amount of the letter of credit is due to CLNY as long as a confirming letter of credit remains in place. The CLNY letters of credit expire not later than October 27, 2002.
Commencing on January 1, 1998 and on each April 1, July 1, October 1 and January 1, thereafter, the Company is obligated to deposit, as additional collateral for the CLNY letters of credit, cash into a sinking fund equal to the principal portion of the quarterly amortization payment which would be due on each such date on a loan in the amount of the aggregate stated amount of such letters of credit being amortized over a term of twenty-five years with an interest rate of 8.00% per annum.
Concurrently with the issuance of the Florida Bonds, the Company redeemed $38.7 million of bonds (the "Prior Florida Bonds") owned by TEB Municipal Trust I ("TEB"), a New York Trust in which an unconsolidated subsidiary of the Company held an approximately $2.0 million of original principal balance Class G certificate. In addition to the Class G certificate, TEB also sold $27.0 million of original principal balance in Class A certificates and $10.0 million of original principal balance in Class B certificates. During the quarter ended September 30, 1997, the prior Florida Bonds, and correspondingly, the trust certificates were subject to a $300,000 partial redemption, thereby leaving an aggregate outstanding balance of $38.7 million in Prior Florida Bonds, and correspondingly trust certificates. On December 1, 1997, when the Prior Florida Bonds were redeemed, the Company redeemed the Class G certificates in TEB and reimbursed the credit
enhancer for the Class A certificates on its direct pay letter of credit with respect to the Class A certificates. In addition, the Class B certificate holders put their certificates to the Company at a price equal to their par value plus a $555,687 premium. A representative of the Class B certificate holders executed a release of the Company and its affiliates in connection with the transaction.
On March 6, 1997, the Industrial Development Authority of the City of Phoenix, Arizona issued $6.0 million of variable-rate, tax exempt bonds (the "Crossroads Bonds") for the benefit of the Crossroads property. The Crossroads Bonds bear interest at a floating rate that is reset weekly by the remarketing agent at the minimum rate required to remarket the bonds at par. The Crossroads Bonds are credit enhanced under the FNMA Facility. The Crossroads Bonds mature on December 15, 2036.
On April 17, 1997, the Company refinanced $8.5 million of fixed-rate, tax-exempt bonds issued by the Industrial Development Board of the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County (the "Bellevue Bonds") for the benefit of the Crossings of Bellevue property. The Bellevue Bonds bear interest at a floating rate that is reset weekly by the remarketing agent at the minimum rate required to remarket the bonds at par. The Bellevue Bonds are credit enhanced by the FNMA Facility, issued by FNMA. The Bellevue Bonds mature on December 15, 2027.
On April 25, 1997, the Harris County Housing Finance Corporation issued $4.0 million of variable-rate, taxable bonds (the "Sandalwood Bonds") for the benefit of the Sandalwood property. The Sandalwood Bonds bear interest at a floating rate that is reset weekly by the remarketing agent at the minimum rate required to remarket the bonds at par. The Sandalwood Bonds are credit enhanced by FNMA under the FNMA Facility. The Sandalwood Bonds mature on December 15, 2036.
Also, on April 25, 1997, the Harris County Housing Finance Corporation issued $9.1 million in variable-rate, tax-exempt bonds (the "Ashford Bonds") for the benefit of the Trails of Ashford property. The Ashford Bonds bear interest at a floating rate that is reset weekly by the remarketing agent at the minimum rate required to remarket the bonds at par. The Ashford Bonds are credit enhanced by FNMA under the FNMA Facility. The Ashford Bonds mature on December 15, 2036.
On September 18, 1997, the Bexar County Housing Finance Corporation issued $2.3 million of variable-rate taxable bonds (the "Shallow Creek Bonds") for the benefit of the Shallow Creek property. The Shallow Creek Bonds bear interest at a floating rate that is reset weekly by the remarketing agent at the minimum rate required to remarket the bonds at par. The Shallow Creek Bonds are credit enhanced by the FNMA Facility and mature on December 15, 2026.
TEB MUNICIPAL TRUST II
On May 1, 1997, the Company sold at par approximately $4.0 million of tax-exempt bonds (the "Stonybrook Bonds") and approximately $900,000 of tax-exempt subordinate bonds (the "Class B Madera Bonds") to TEB Municipal Trust II, a New York Trust ("TEB II"). The Company has an approximately 1% ownership interest in TEB II through G.P. Municipal Holdings, L.L.C., an Illinois
limited liability company of which the Company is a member ("G.P. Holdings"). The interest rate on the $4.0 million of fixed rate tax-exempt Stonybrook Bonds is 10% per annum. The Stonybrook Bonds are collateralized by the Stonybrook property and mature on October 1, 2012. The interest rate on approximately $900,000 of tax-exempt Class B Madera Bonds is fixed at 11% per annum. The Class B Madera Bonds are collateralized by the Madera Point property and mature on June 1, 2027.
Concurrent with its purchase of the bonds, TEB II sold a $4.9 million Class A Receipt of beneficial interest in TEB II at a fixed rate of 9.5% per annum, payable monthly. G.P. Holdings holds an approximately $14,500 Class G Receipt, which is entitled to a distribution in an amount equal to the excess of interest earned by TEB II from its ownership of the Class B Madera Bonds and the Stonybrook Bonds over the distributions paid to the Class A Receipt holders. Under the terms of certain agreements between members of G.P. Holdings, the Company receives 100% of any excess cash flows, as defined, from G.P. Holdings.
ASSUMPTION OF TAX-EXEMPT BONDS IN 1997
On March 11, 1997, the Company acquired the Palencia property located in Tampa, Florida, for $15.4 million. The Company financed the acquisitions by assuming $13.3 million of fixed-rate tax-exempt bonds (the "Palencia Bonds"). Pursuant to the terms of the loan agreement, the bonds bear interest at a fixed rate of 7.65% per annum and mature on March 1, 2024. The bonds are collateralized by a first mortgage on the Palencia property.
Upon the request of Banc One Capital Funding Corporation ("BOCFC"), the current holder of the Palencia Bonds, the Company may be required to purchase the Palencia Bonds from BOCFC, on or after April 1, 1997, at a price equal to the outstanding balance of the Palencia Bonds, plus accrued interest, and any other amounts due BOCFC under the terms of a Put Agreement. The obligation under the Put Agreement is considered to be recourse to the Company.
INTEREST RATE PROTECTION
The Company has adopted a policy regarding the hedging of total variable rate debt (see "Management's Discussion and Analysis-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Sources and Uses of Cash-Derivatives"). This policy which provides that at no time will the Company have more than 30% of its variable rate debt not hedged by an interest rate cap, swap or other interest rate protection agreement. In addition, the Company will maintain a 1.3 times debt service coverage ratio based upon (a) hedged debt at the applicable interest rate cap and swap strike prices and (b) unhedged debt at a rate of 10% per annum. This policy may be changed from time to time by the Board of Directors in its discretion. As of December 31, 1997 and March 17, 1998, the Company had $37.3 million and $35.1 million, respectively, in variable rate debt that was not hedged by any interest rate protection, and was in compliance with the foregoing policies. This represented 13.0% and 12.0% of the Company's variable rate debt at December 31, 1997 and March 17, 1998, respectively. With respect to all variable rate debt outstanding as of December 31, 1997, an increase in short-term interest rates of 1% per annum for a period of one year would decrease annual net income by
approximately $535,000 based on outstanding variable rate debt balances at December 31, 1997 (after taking into consideration the effect of the interest rate protection agreements).
As of December 31, 1997, the Company has hedged against fluctuations in interest rates on all of the Company's $233.9 million of variable rate bonds. On December 9, 1996, the Company entered into a swap transaction with CLNY in which the Company pays a fixed rate of 4.636% on a notional amount of $186.5 million (including $16.5 million of debt related to the Williamsburg bonds issued to an unconsolidated joint venture of the Company). Under the CLNY swaps, the Company receives a floating rate based upon the PSA Municipal Swap Index. These swap agreements mature on December 9, 2003.
On October 3, 1996, the Company entered into a swap transaction with Goldman Sachs to hedge against fluctuations in the variable interest rate on the Class A Receipts in TEB which have been redeemed. Under the swap transaction, the Company pays a fixed rate of 6.83% on a notional amount of $26.5 million (which due to the relationship between the LIBOR rate and the J.J. Kenny Index, hedges approximately $36.6 million of variable rate bonds) and receives a floating rate equal to 90 day LIBOR. Management believes that there is a reasonable correlation between changes in the LIBOR rate (on which the fixed rate the Company pays was based) and the J.J. Kenny Index (an index of AA rated, variable rate tax exempt bonds). This swap agreement matures on October 3, 2003.
In order to hedge against variations in the relationship between LIBOR and the Kenny Index the Company entered into a three year swap on March 14, 1996 with Nomura Capital Securities, Inc. in which the Company pays a floating rate equal to 72.5% of 90 day LIBOR and receives a floating rate equal to the J.J. Kenny Index on a notional amount of $130 million (the "Basis Risk Swap"). On November 26, 1996 this swap was assigned from Nomura Capital Securities, Inc. to Salomon Brothers Holding Company. As a result of the cancellation of certain swaps in December 1996, the notional amount of $103.3 million of the Basis Risk Swap no longer provides the Company a hedge against interest rate risk.
The excess in notional amount of swaps ($2.6 million LIBOR and $103.5 million in Basis Risk Swap) is currently unallocated and may be used to hedge against variable interest rate risk on future bond indebtedness.
Effective March 3, 1997, the Company entered into a swap transaction with CLNY in order to hedge itself against interest rate fluctuations with respect to the Crossroads Bonds. Pursuant to the terms of the swap agreement, the Company will pay a fixed rate of 4.85% per annum on a notional amount of $6.0 million and receive a variable rate based on the PSA Municipal Index. The swap agreement terminates on March 3, 2004.
Effective April 17, 1997, the Company entered into an interest rate cap agreement with CLNY at a purchase price of $756,370 to protect against interest rate fluctuations with respect to the Bellevue Bonds and the Ashford Bonds. Pursuant to the terms of such interest rate cap agreement,
the interest rate is limited to 4.95% per annum on a notional amount of $17.6 million. The interest rate cap agreement terminates on April 17, 2004.
Effective April 25, 1997, the Company entered into an interest rate cap agreement with CLNY at a purchase price of $234,000 to protect against interest rate fluctuations with respect to the Sandalwood Bonds. Pursuant to the terms of such interest rate cap agreement, the interest rate is limited to 6.5% per annum on a notional amount of $4.0 million. The interest rate cap agreement terminates on April 26, 2004.
Effective September 11, 1997, the Company entered into an interest rate cap agreement with CLNY at a purchase price of $58,000 to protect against interest rate fluctuations with respect to the Shallow Creek Bonds. Pursuant to the terms of such interest rate cap agreement, the interest rate is limited to 6.53% per annum on a notional amount of $2.3 million. The interest rate cap agreement terminates on September 11, 2002.
Below is a summary of the transactions which protect the Company from fluctuations in interest rates.
RECOURSE OBLIGATIONS
On June 22, 1997, the Company entered into a secured revolving credit facility to refinance its credit facility with Bank One Arizona (the "Bank One Credit Facility") with Nomura Asset Capital Corporation (as amended, the "NACC Revolving Loan"). The NACC Revolving Loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.50% and has a maximum commitment of $75.0 million subject to the amount of collateral pledged by the Company. As of December 31, 1997, six properties were pledged as collateral under the NACC Revolving Loan, and approximately $35.3 million was outstanding. As of December 31, 1997, the collateral value of the six properties pledged as collateral would have permitted an additional $2.6 million of borrowings under the NACC Revolving Loan. The NACC Revolving Loan originally had a maturity date of December 31, 1997; however, on
September 30, 1997, the Company amended the NACC Revolving Loan to extend the maturity date to December 31, 1998.
On May 28, 1997, the Company entered the CLNY Unsecured Line of Credit for $25.0 million at the prime rate plus 1.25% or, at the option of the Company, the Eurorate plus 2.25% or LIBOR plus 2.25%. Unpaid advances, together with any accrued or unpaid interest thereon, is due and payable 120 days following the date of any advance under the CLNY Unsecured Line of Credit. As of December 31, 1997, there was approximately $2.0 million outstanding under the CLNY Unsecured Line of Credit. The CLNY Unsecured Line of Credit previously had a maturity date of December 31, 1997; however, on September 30, 1997, the Company amended the CLNY Unsecured Line of Credit to extend the maturity date to May 23, 1998. On January 30,1998, the Company further amended the CLNY Unsecured Line of Credit as described in "Recent Developments".
INDEBTEDNESS OF UNCONSOLIDATED PARTNERSHIPS
As of December 31, 1997, the unconsolidated Property Partnerships had total debt outstanding of $28.3 million, all of which is long-term tax-exempt financing (secured, directly or indirectly, by mortgages on the related Properties). The Property Partnership that owns the Williamsburg Property has outstanding $16.5 million of which 100% is nonrecourse. The Property Partnership that owns the Brook Run Property has outstanding $11.8 million of bonds that bear interest at a fixed rate of 5.05% per annum, with an all-in cost of approximately 5.375%. This debt is marketed based on credit enhancement that is supported by a recourse standby purchase agreement provided by Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Company. The credit enhancement expired on November 30, 1995 and the Property Partnership acquired $11.8 million of the tax-exempt bonds. A general partner of the Property Partnership provided the financing to enable it to acquire such bonds. On May 22, 1997, the Company entered into an agreement with FGIC to provide credit enhancement for bonds secured by the Brook Run Property. The bonds were remarketed and the proceeds were used to repay the loan from the general partner of the Property Partnership. Under the terms of the insurance agreement, the Property Partnership was required to prepay the premium payment of $183,947, which is amortized over the term of the insurance agreement. The agreement terminates on January 1, 2004. The standby purchase agreement expires on November 30, 2003. The standby purchase provider will have recourse to the Operating Partnership (or the Company, if the Operating Partnership ceases to exist) for any loss to it with respect to the $11.8 million of bonds, but this recourse will be limited to one-half of 30% of the principal amount of the bonds relating to the Brook Run property, as such amount may be reduced by redemption or other early repayment other than in connection with the application of proceeds of any collateral securing such bonds or credit enhancement, plus one-half of 30% of all accrued and unpaid interest due and owing with respect to such bonds plus all costs and expenses of enforcing such recourse obligation.
ITEM 3.