ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Southern Pacific Transportation Company ("SPT" or the "Company") is a wholly- owned subsidiary of Southern Pacific Rail Corporation ("SPRC"). Unless the content otherwise requires, references herein to the Company include SPT and it subsidiaries, including St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company ("SSW"), The Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad Company ("D&RGW") and SPCSL CORP. ("SPCSL"), and references to SPRC include SPRC and its subsidiaries, including SPT and its subsidiaries and Rio Grande Holding ("RGH") and its subsidiaries. References herein to SPRC prior to August 18, 1993 include SPTC Holding, Inc. ("SPTCH"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of SPRC and the parent of SPT that was merged into SPRC on such date and reference herein to RGH prior to October 1, 1994 include D&RGW, which became a subsidiary of SPT on such date. All financial and statistical amounts, including the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes, have been restated for all periods presented to include the accounts and data of D&RGW.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
PART I
ITEMS 1. AND 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES
GENERAL
The Company, through the integrated network of its principal subsidiaries, transports freight over approximately 14,500 miles of first main track throughout the western United States. The Company operates in 15 states over five main routes. The Company serves most west coast ports and large population centers west of the Mississippi and connects with eastern railroads at Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Memphis and New Orleans. The Company's rail lines reach the principal Gulf ports south from Chicago and east from the Los Angeles basin. It interchanges with Mexican railroads at six gateways into Mexico.
The principal commodities hauled in the Company's carload operations are chemicals and petroleum products, food and agricultural products, forest products (including paper, paper products and lumber) and coal. Intermodal container and trailer operations continue to be the Company's largest single traffic category. In 1994, the largest five shippers accounted for less than 17 % of the Company's gross freight revenues, with no shipper providing more than 6 % of such revenue.
The Company was acquired by SPRC in October 1988 from Santa Fe Pacific Corporation ("Santa Fe"). In 1989 and 1990, the Company acquired access to Chicago from St. Louis and Kansas City, respectively, and in 1994, the stock of D&RGW was contributed to the Company such that all rail operations of SPRC are included in the Company. All amounts have been restated to reflect the combined results of the companies for all periods presented. For the five years preceding its acquisition by SPRC, SPT had been held in trust pending the decision of the Interstate Commerce Commission (the "ICC") that denied Santa Fe's requested merger with SPT. During this period, SPT fell significantly behind other Class I railroads that were then consolidating, streamlining and strengthening their railroads.
In addition to its rail business, the Company historically has received substantial cash flow from "traditional" real estate sales and leasing activities. More recently, transit corridor sales have become a dominant component of the Company's asset sales program, with the Company usually retaining operating rights over these corridors to continue freight rail service to its customers.
CAPITAL AND DEBT TRANSACTIONS
In August 1993 and March 1994 SPRC closed the offering and sale of 30,783,750 shares and 25,000,000 shares of common stock, respectively. In connection with these offerings, the Company issued 200 shares of common stock in 1993 and 150 shares of common stock in 1994 for consideration of $445.5 million and $294.4 million from SPRC, respectively. Proceeds from these transactions were used to repay debt, purchase equipment operated pursuant to operating leases and for general corporate purposes.
In 1993 and 1994, D&RGW paid dividends of $46.7 million and $53.8 million to RGH, respectively.
RAILROAD OPERATIONS
The following table sets forth certain freight and operating statistics relating to the Company's rail operations as restated to included D&RGW for the periods indicated. The operating ratios show consolidated operating expenses expressed as a percentage of consolidated operating revenues. The indicated increases in revenue ton-miles and carloads reflect an improving economy and implementation of the Company's business strategy. The decrease in revenue per ton-mile evidences the intense competitive pressures under which the Company operates, particularly those affecting its intermodal activities. The increase in revenue ton-miles per gallon of fuel primarily reflects the results of the Company's on-going program to rehabilitate and upgrade the quality of its locomotive fleet. The increase in labor productivity, as
measured by revenue ton-miles per employee, is primarily the result of Company programs to reduce the number of employees combined with increases in traffic volume.
______________________
(1) Includes intermodal carloads with an assumed two containers per carload. Intermodal carloads hold from two to ten containers.
(2) Calculated based on average monthly employment for 1994 and 1993.
SERVICE TERRITORY
The Company's routes and service territory are described below.
Central Corridor Route. The Central Corridor Route links Northern California and the Pacific Northwest with Kansas, Missouri and Illinois, traversing the Rocky Mountain states via the D&RGW. The eastern end of this route reaches the rail gateway cities of Kansas City, St. Louis and Chicago. This route handles a diverse mix of traffic including eastbound forest products, perishables and processed foods, as well as significant volumes of finished automobiles and other manufactured goods. The bulk of the Company's low sulphur, high BTU coal traffic originates along this route in the mountainous territory of Colorado and Utah and moves east.
Pacific Coast Route. The north-south route connects the forest product resource base of the Pacific Northwest with the major consuming markets in California and Arizona.
Sunset Route. The Company's Sunset Route is a direct line from the Los Angeles Basin to Houston and other Gulf Coast ports, as well as the eastern rail gateways of Memphis and New Orleans. This route structure supports the Company's presence in carload origination of chemicals and plastics in the Gulf region.
Golden State Route. This route connects Southern California and Arizona with the industrial midwest and the rail gateways of Kansas City, St. Louis and Chicago. A wide range of products is handled in the corridor including intermodal, metals and ores, agricultural products and miscellaneous manufactured products.
Mid-America Route. The Mid-America Route (also known as the "Cotton Belt Route") links the petrochemical producing region along the Gulf of Mexico with industrial users and consuming markets in the midwest and northeast. The Cotton Belt serves the cities of Dallas/Ft. Worth, Shreveport, Memphis and St. Louis.
Mexico. The Company serves Mexico through interchanges with Mexican railroads at six gateways in California, Texas and Arizona.
TRAFFIC
Set out below is a comparison of the Company's carload volumes and gross freight revenues (before contract allowances and adjustments) by commodity groups in 1994. A more detailed discussion of the traffic generated by each group follows the table.
Intermodal. The intermodal freight business consists of hauling freight containers or truck trailers by a combination of water, rail and motor carriers, with rail carriers serving as the link between motor carriers and between ports and motor carriers. The Company's marketing efforts are focused on direct negotiations with major steamship lines for international container traffic and with marketing agents (primarily shipper agents and consolidators) and motor carriers for domestic container and trailer traffic.
The Company's intermodal revenues are derived in large part from goods produced in the Pacific Rim and shipped by rail from west coast ports to east coast markets. This traffic is carried on the Company's lines from its terminals at Oakland or Los Angeles/Long Beach to Chicago, St. Louis, New Orleans or Houston, or through connecting carriers, beyond to the U. S. eastern seaboard. Most of this traffic uses the Company's Intermodal Container Transfer Facility ("ICTF") in Southern California. In some cases, motor carriers and railroads have begun to jointly market intermodal service. The Company provides stack-train and trailer-on-flatcar service among its 27 intermodal facilities across the system.
Chemical and Petroleum Products. The Company transports a wide range of industrial, chemical and plastic products which constitute the primary commodity and product groups included in this traffic. Most of the traffic originates within Texas where the Company directly serves chemical and plastics plants. The Company's routes enable it to transport these products from Texas directly to end-user markets on the west coast and through interchanges at major gateways to end-user markets on the east coast. Shipper demand is closely tied to fluctuations in end-user demand and also is sensitive to the availability of safe, predictable transportation service.
Coal. The Company serves important sources of low-sulfur, high BTU coal in Colorado and Utah, which represents a growing share of the Company's commodity mix. The traffic is subject to intense competition from other coal sources, particularly the Powder River Basin in Wyoming and the Illinois Basin.
Food and Agricultural Products. Grain and grain products constitute the primary commodity groups included in this traffic. The Company is a major transporter of grain products to Mexico. Shipper demand is affected by competition among sources of grain and grain products as well as price fluctuations in international markets for key commodities. Other food and consumer goods included in this traffic are shipments primarily from sources in California to consumer markets in the eastern part of the U. S.
Forest Products. This traffic includes lumber stock, plywood and various paper products. Most of the traffic originates in Oregon and Northern California with destinations throughout the U.S. However, certain product sources in
the Pacific Northwest have been adversely affected by environmental concerns. In response, the Company is pursuing alternate sources in Canada and the Southern U.S. to increase volumes. The transportation market for lumber is affected by housing starts and remodeling activity, while the transportation market for paper products is driven by end-user demand for packaging and newsprint.
Metals and Ores. Metals and ores traffic includes both ferrous and non- ferrous metals and is concentrated on the steel mills of the west and shipments from copper mines and smelters in the southwest. These markets are sensitive to demand for construction and pipeline projects along with demand for industrial production and consumer goods with substantial metals components. The markets also are affected by commodity prices in international markets and subject to the substitution of imported metals.
Other. The traffic generated by the business development groups discussed above amounted to approximately 88.9% of the Company's gross freight revenues for 1994. Other commodity and product groups included in the Company's traffic mix include automobiles, automotive parts, construction materials, non-metallic minerals and government traffic.
Mexico. The Company's Mexico Group, headquartered in Houston, serves as a marketing and service link between the Company's business development groups and markets in Mexico. The Company maintains a working relationship with FNM. During 1994, approximately 176,000 carloads, or 7.7% of the Company's total carloads, were from traffic with Mexico. FNM and the Company are working on establishing through rates for carload shipments of selected commodities through all six of the gateways to Mexico served by the Company. The Company also provides intermodal container service linking the ICTF and Mexico City and has developed joint marketing arrangements with Mexican trucking companies establishing single through rates on a truck-rail-truck delivery system.
PHYSICAL PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Roadway, Yards and Structures. At December 31, 1994, the Company had approximately 22,500 miles of track in operation, consisting of approximately 14,500 miles of first main track and approximately 8,000 miles of additional main track, passing track, way switching track and yard switching track. Miles of first main track include operating rights on 2,578 miles of track owned by other railroads. The Company is analyzing certain branchlines for possible sale, lease or abandonment. During 1994, the Company sold over 345 miles of such lines in Oregon and California. The Company will continue in its efforts to dispose of the branchlines and will continue to identify additional properties, including other branch lines, rail yards and terminals, that can be made available for sale, lease or abandonment. To the extent proceeds from such dispositions are less than the Company's basis in those properties, a non-cash financial statement loss would be recognized.
Principal railroad yard facilities owned by the Company are located at Eugene, Oregon; Sacramento, Roseville, Oakland, Los Angeles and West Colton, California; Houston, Texas; Pine Bluff, Arkansas; and Kansas City, Kansas; Denver, Pueblo and Grand Junction, Colorado; and Salt Lake City, Utah. As part of its effort to rationalize operations, the Company is identifying and assessing opportunities for consolidation of its railroad yard facilities.
Equipment. In late 1993 and throughout 1994, as part of a program to upgrade its locomotive fleet, the Company acquired 150 new locomotives, 17 of which were delivered in the last quarter of 1993 with the balance delivered in 1994. Additionally, the Company has acquired 133 remanufactured locomotives of which 115 were delivered in 1994 and the balance in early 1995. These locomotives were financed by capital leases for which the capitalized lease obligation was approximately $221 million. In 1994, the Company acquired through capital lease financing approximately 1,400 freight cars (700 newly manufactured and 700 remanufactured) for which the total capitalized lease obligation was approximately $56 million. The Company has also received approximately 1,600 additional reconditioned freight cars in 1994 on which it expects to complete capital lease financing in 1995. In addition, the Company acquired 350 used freight cars in 1994 under operating leases.
At December 31, 1994, the Company owned (including equipment under capitalized leases) or leased the equipment described in the table below. The table excludes equipment held under short-term leases. At December 31,
1994, there were 150 locomotives subject to short-term leases. At December 31, 1994, there were approximately 1,585 non-serviceable freight cars in storage, which included freight cars awaiting sale to a third party for rehabilitation and leaseback and freight cars scheduled for repair.
At December 31, 1993, the Company owned and leased 1,878 and 357 locomotives, respectively and 31,481 and 10,329 freight cars, respectively.
The components of the Company's equipment lease and rental expense are shown below (in million of dollars):
Capital Expenditures and Maintenance. Improvement and on-going maintenance of roadway, structures and equipment are essential components of the Company's efforts to improve service and reduce operating costs. The Company has made the following railroad capital expenditures in order to maintain and improve train service (in millions of dollars):
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
(1) Excludes equipment previously under operating leases purchased with $65.3 million of the proceeds of capital and debt transactions ($30.1 million for locomotives and $35.2 million for freight cars).
The Company's capital expenditures for railroad operations for 1995 are expected to be approximately $317 million (exclusive of capital leases) including $271 million for roadway and structures and $46 million for railroad equipment and other items.
The Company has ordered an additional 206 AC powered locomotives to be financed by capitalized lease financing that are scheduled to be delivered during the second and third quarters of 1995. In addition, the Company has ordered 920 new hopper cars and expects to receive approximately 1,500 reconditioned freight cars in 1995. The Company expects to finance these acquisitions through capitalized lease financing. The total expected capitalized lease obligation to be incurred during 1995, including the 1,600 reconditioned freight cars received in 1994 for which financing is scheduled to be arranged in 1995, is approximately $400 million.
The following table shows the Company's expenses for on-going maintenance and repairs of roadway and structure and railroad equipment (including administrative and inspection costs) for the periods indicated (in millions of dollars):
MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURES
TRANSIT CORRIDOR AND REAL ESTATE SALES
The disposition of urban and intercity transit corridors and surplus real estate, mostly in metropolitan areas along the Company's rights of way, is a major component of the Company's business strategy and is conducted as part of the Company's ordinary course of business. The Company markets properties that are classified generally into two distinct types: transit corridors and consolidated freight corridors, which are typically sold to public agencies, and traditional real estate, which is typically sold to different groups of potential buyers. From January 1, 1989 through December 31, 1994, the Company received over $1.7 billion in proceeds from its real estate asset disposition program. During that time, such sales were necessary for the Company to meet its capital expenditure, debt service and other cash needs. Of the $1.7 billion in proceeds, a total of $362 million was received during 1993 and 1994, with $235 million coming from the Alameda Corridor sale in December 1994. The Company has identified certain operating properties that it might sell in the future if it can do so without impacting its railroad operations. Management has not made a firm decision to remove any of these properties from its operating system. In order to enhance the value of certain properties and facilitate their disposition, the Company has participated in the past and may in the future participate with others in the development of such properties by contributing the property and funding to joint ventures or other entities, participating in sale and leaseback arrangements and engaging in other transactions that do not involve immediate cash proceeds. In addition, in order to facilitate sales or otherwise enhance values of transit corridors and other facilities, the Company may form joint ventures with private partners or public entities or engage in other innovative transactions.
Transit Corridors. The Company's sales efforts have focused particularly on, and most of the proceeds since January 1, 1989 resulted from, the sale of transit corridor properties that consist of the Company's rights of way and related tracks and rail stations that provide a natural corridor over which a metropolitan, regional or other geographic area can establish and operate public transportation systems or consolidated freight corridors (for use by more than one railroad). The Company usually retains freight operating rights over these corridors to continue rail service to its customers. During 1994, the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach purchased SPT's Alameda Corridor for $235 million. Earlier sales include the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission's purchase of over $400 million of SPT's property and the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board's purchase of SPT's Peninsula Corridor for approximately $220 million, with an additional $110 million of property covered by purchase options, approximately $79 million of which have not lapsed, been exercised or extinguished.
Traditional Real Estate. In addition to transit corridors, the Company sells traditional real estate that consists principally of industrial and commercial properties located in developed areas on the Company's system. The Company's supply of properties includes several thousand parcels that are available or could be made available for sale within the next few years (without including properties currently leased by the Company to tenants).
Lease Activities. The Company actively administers approximately 21,000 leases that represent most of the Company's annual rental income. Generally, the Company does not target its leased properties for sale unless the annual rental does not reflect an appropriate return on the property. Under its leases, the Company receives annual gross rental income of nearly $45 million, which includes income from uses of its rights of way for such purposes as signboards, longitudinal fiber optics and pipelines.
EMPLOYEES AND LABOR
Labor and related expenses accounted for approximately 38% of the Company's railroad operating expenses in 1994. At December 31, 1994, the Company employed 18,010 persons, which represents a reduction of approximately 972 from January 1, 1994. The December 31, 1994 employment figure includes 17,785 employed in the Company's rail operations. These reductions resulted from attrition and voluntary separations, severance, early retirement programs and furloughs.
At December 31, 1994, approximately 88% of the Company's railroad employees were covered by collective
bargaining agreements with railway labor organizations that are organized along craft lines, where employees are grouped together by job and historical practice. Historically, many collective bargaining agreements in the railroad industry have been negotiated on a nationwide basis with the railroads being represented by the National Railway Labor Conference. In November 1993, the Company withdrew its participation with the National Railway Labor Conference with respect to the current bargaining round indicating it would negotiate wage and work rule agreements separately from any nationwide negotiations conducted by other Class I railroads.
Labor relations in the railroad industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation under the Railway Labor Act ("RLA"). The most recent national collective bargaining agreements with the major railway labor organizations and the railroads, including the Company, expired in 1988, and negotiations failed to resolve the wage and work rule issues. After various presidential and legislative actions in 1991, because of its constrained financial condition, the Company was authorized to negotiate separately with certain of its employee unions, rather than on a nationwide basis with the railroads being represented by a bargaining committee, as is typically the case. These negotiations resulted in wage rates that are lower than the national rates for most of the Company's union employees and relieved the Company of the requirement to make certain lump sum payments to employees. These concessions were applied to the Company's railroad subsidiaries (other than D&RGW) and represent a substantial savings to the Company in terms of the labor costs it would have otherwise incurred. The agreements cover over 15,400 union employees of the Company.
In November 1993, the company entered into a labor agreement with the United Transportation Union ("UTU"), which represents approximately 2,300 trainmen and switchmen on the Company's Western Lines. The agreement, which resolved the issues from 1988 and continues through 1997, provided for a reduction of 210 surplus employees, the elimination of a reserve board (employees who are paid a percentage of salary but stay home awaiting recall), and a wage freeze through the end of 1997. As a result, the Company became the only Class I railroad without reserve boards for any of its lines.
All of the Company's labor agreements became subject to modification (except the Western Lines UTU Agreement) in January 1995. Wages for approximately half of the Company's employees covered by these agreements are required to return to wage levels prevailing under nationwide railway collective bargaining agreements in 1995. Wages for the other employees covered by the agreements (including the Western Lines UTU) do not require restoration to national wage levels and are subject to resolution in the next round of negotiations which began in late 1994. In addition, all of the Company's labor agreements (except for the agreement related to UTU employees on the Company's Western Lines) provide for cost-of-living increases on a semi-annual basis beginning July 1, 1995. The additional cost to the Company of these automatic increases could be substantial.
As a result of local negotiations in the current bargaining round, the Company has entered into six agreements which run through 1997 (includes the Western Lines UTU Agreement). Those agreements, which cover in excess of 3,800 employees, have been ratified by the union membership and cover all trainmen and switchmen on the St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company, the signalmen systemwide, yardmasters systemwide, switchmen on the Company's Eastern Lines, and the Company's intermodal facilities at Long Beach and Oakland. Those agreements do not provide for general wage increases; however, they do provide for a 3% lump sum payment based on the performance of the Company as measured by its operating ratio. These agreements also provide for cost of living increases on July 1, 1995 and on July 1, 1996 but none thereafter. As of February 22, 1995, the Company is in negotiations with its clerical employees, locomotive engineers, shop craft employees and train dispatchers representing approximately 9,500 employees.
Under the RLA, labor agreements are renegotiated when they become open for modification, but their terms remain in effect until new agreements are reached. Typically, neither management nor labor is permitted to take economic action until extended procedures are exhausted.
Railroad industry personnel are covered by the Railroad Retirement Act ("RRA") instead of the Social Security Act. Employer contributions under the RRA are currently substantially higher than those under the Social Security Act and may rise further because of the increasing proportion of retired employees receiving benefits relative to the number of working employees.
Railroad industry personnel are also covered by the Federal Employer's Liability Act ("FELA") rather than by state workers' compensation systems. FELA is a fault-based system, with compensation for injuries settled by negotiation and litigation. By contrast, most other industries are covered under state- administered no-fault plans with standard compensation schedules.
GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION
The Company is subject to environmental, safety, health and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses. In addition, the Company, like other rail common carriers, is subject to regulation by the ICC, the Federal Railroad Administration, state departments of transportation and some state regulatory agencies.
Government regulation of the railroad industry is a significant determinant of the competitiveness and profitability of railroads. Deregulation of certain rates and services pursuant to the Staggers Act has substantially increased the flexibility of railroads to respond to market forces, while the deregulated environment has resulted in highly competitive and steadily decreasing rates.
The ICC has jurisdiction, which is limited in certain circumstances, over, among other things, rates charged by rail carriers for certain traffic movements, service levels, car rental payments, the issuance or guarantee of railroad securities, the terms under which one railroad may gain access to another railroad's traffic or facilities, extension or abandonment of rail lines, consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of rail common carriers and labor protection for certain transactions. Currently, the United States Congress has under consideration proposals to reduce the scope of regulation over railroads, eliminate the ICC and transfer remaining regulatory functions to another federal agency. It is unclear whether, or to what extent, any such proposals will be enacted and whether any changes in current regulation of the industry would materially affect the Company.
The Federal Railroad Administration has jurisdiction over railroad safety and equipment standards. State departments of transportation and regulatory agencies also have jurisdiction over certain local safety and operating matters; and these state and local agencies have become more aggressive in their exercise of jurisdiction.
COMPETITION
The Company's business faces intense competition from railroads and motor carriers. Competition with other railroads and modes of transportation is generally based on the rates charged, as well as the quality and reliability of the service provided. The Company's intermodal traffic and certain other traffic confront highly price sensitive competition, particularly from motor carriers. Some competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the resources of the Company. This factor and other competitive pressures have led to a downward pressure on rates. If this were to result in declining margins, it could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results.
The consolidation in recent years of major western rail systems has resulted in particularly strong competition in the service territory of the Company. Further consolidation of the Company's rail competitors could adversely affect the Company's competitive position and operating results. Such further consolidations include the acquisition by Union Pacific Railroad Company ("Union Pacific") of control of the Chicago and Northwestern Holdings Corp. ("CNW"), which was approved by the ICC in an order served March 7, 1995, and the proposed merger of Burlington Northern Railroad Company ("BN") and the Atchison Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company ("ATSF"), which has been approved by their respective shareholders and for which BN and Santa Fe filed an application for approval with the ICC in November 1994. In their application to the ICC, BN and ATSF asserted that the Company's gross revenues from rail operations would be reduced by approximately $60.8 million as a result of diversions of traffic if the proposed merger is completed. The Company currently is conducting its own studies and is obtaining assessments of potential diversions from independent experts in preparation for its filings with the ICC relating to the proposed BN/ATSF merger. Preliminary analysis suggests, however, that diversions resulting from the merger could substantially exceed the amounts asserted by BN and ATSF if appropriate conditions are not obtained or imposed in the merger proceedings. Because competition otherwise will be reduced by the
proposed merger, the Company will be requesting conditions (such as operating and haulage rights and access to certain shipping points) that would preserve competition and substantially prevent a loss of revenue. The Company is seeking and expects to obtain significant shipper support for conditions it will be requesting. There is no assurance, however, that the conditions requested by the Company will be obtained or imposed.
Certain segments of the Company's freight traffic, notably intermodal, face highly price sensitive competition from trucks, although improvements in railroad operating efficiencies are tending to lessen the truckers' cost advantages. Trucks are not obligated to provide or to maintain rights of way and they do not have to pay real estate taxes on their routes. In recent years, the trucking industry diverted a substantial amount of freight from the railroads as truck operators' efficiency over long distances increased. Because fuel costs constitute a larger percentage of the trucking industry's costs, declining fuel prices disproportionately benefit trucking operations as compared to railroad operations. Truck competition has also increased because of legislation removing many of the barriers to entry into the trucking business and allowing the use of wider, longer and heavier trailers and multiple trailer combinations in many areas.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
The Company's operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation under environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste or other materials. Inherent in the railroad operation of the Company is the risk of environmental liabilities as a result of both current and past operations. The Company regularly transports chemicals and other hazardous materials for shippers, as well as using hazardous materials in its own operations. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as properties currently owned and used by the Company. Environmental liabilities can be asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. Also, the Company has indemnified certain property purchasers as to environmental contingencies.
In addition to costs incurred on an on-going basis associated with regulatory compliance in its business, the Company may have environmental liability in three general situations. First, under the Federal Comprehensive Environment Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 as amended ("CERCLA"), it might have liability for having disposed of wastes at waste disposal sites that are believed to pose threats to the public health or the environment, without regard to fault or the legality of waste generation or of the original disposal. Second, under CERCLA and applicable state statutes, the current owner or operator of any real property, not just waste disposal sites, may incur liability for hazardous substances located on the property or that have migrated to adjoining properties even though such wastes were deposited by a prior owner, operator or tenant. A former owner or operator of real property may incur liability for hazardous substances located on the property even though such wastes were deposited by another owner, operator or tenant; and a former owner or operator of real property may incur liability after the sale of the property for hazardous waste disposed on the property during the time that it owned, operated or leased the property. The third general area is that associated with the accidental release of hazardous materials or substances during a transportation incident, such as a derailment. Federal, state and local laws and regulations may impose (again, without regard to fault), requirements for clean-up of contaminated soils and surface or groundwater resulting from a derailment; and there may also be long-term monitoring requirements to evaluate the impacts on the environment and natural resources. In addition, adjacent land owners or other third parties sometimes initiate toxic tort litigation against the type of sites described above.
State and local agencies, particularly in California where the Company has extensive operations, have become increasingly active in the environmental area. The increased regulation by multiple agencies can be expected to increase the Company's future environmental costs.
The Company has made and will continue to make substantial expenditures relating to the assessment and remediation of environmental conditions on its properties, including properties held for sale. During 1994 and 1993 the Company spent approximately $20.8 million and $17.0 million, respectively, relating to the assessment and remediation of environmental conditions of operating properties and non-operating properties not held for sale, excluding the effects of the 1991 derailment at Dunsmuir, California. In 1994 and 1993, the Company also incurred approximately $13.2 million and $12.4 million, respectively, for environmental matters relating to properties held for sale. Costs associated with
environmental remediation of properties held for sale may be deferred to the extent such costs, together with estimated future costs and the existing cost basis of the property do not exceed, in the aggregate, the amount expected to be realized upon sale.
The Company owns or previously owned two properties and has a partial interest in four properties that are on the national priorities list ("NPL") under CERCLA, the federal "superfund" statute. The Company has been informed that it is or may be a PRP, together with multiple other PRPs, with respect to the remediation of eight other properties on such list. Certain other Company properties are included on lists of sites maintained under similar state laws. Inclusion of a site on such lists would allow federal or state "superfund" monies to be spent on clean-up at the sites if PRPs do not perform the cleanup. The law governing "superfund" sites provides that PRPs may be jointly and severally liable for the total costs of remediation. In some instances, liability may be allocated through litigation or negotiation among the PRPs based on equitable factors, including volume contribution. Of its properties, including the NPL and PRP properties described above, the Company has only three sites that individually involved future cost estimates for environmental matters as of December 31, 1994 in excess of $5 million.
The Company's total costs for its environmental matters cannot be predicted with certainty; however, the Company has accrued reserves for environmental matters with respect to operating and non-operating properties not held for sale, as well as certain properties previously sold, based on the costs estimated to be incurred when such estimated amounts (or at least a minimum amount) can be reasonably determined based on information available. At December 31, 1994 and 1993, the Company had accrued reserves for environmental contingencies of $65.0 million and $61.7 million, respectively. Based on the Company's reserves, management does not believe that disposition of environmental matters known to the Company will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition. However, there can be no assurance that material liabilities or costs related to environmental matters will not be incurred in the future.
ITEM 3.