ITEM 2. PROPERTIES. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- PART ITEM DESCRIPTION PAGE - ---------------------------------------------------------------------- --------- I 1 and 2 Business and Properties............................... 1 General............................................... 1 Proposed Merger with Union Pacific.................... 1 Railroad Operations................................... 2 Service Territory..................................... 3 Traffic............................................... 4 Physical Plant and Equipment.......................... 5 Transit Corridor and Real Estate Sales................ 8 Employees and Labor................................... 9 Governmental Regulation............................... 10 Competition........................................... 11 Environmental Matters................................. 12 3 Legal Proceedings..................................... 14 II 5 Market For Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder's Matters.............................. 16 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations................ 16 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data........... 23 9 Changes in and Disagreements With Auditors on Accounting and Financial Disclosure................ 23 IV 14 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K........................................... 24 Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules.......................................... 29
Southern Pacific Transportation Company ("SPT" or the "Company") is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Southern Pacific Rail Corporation ("SPRC"). Unless the context otherwise requires, references herein to the Company include SPT and its subsidiaries, including St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company ("SSW"), The Denver and Rio Grande Western Railroad Company ("D&RGW") and SPCSL Corp. ("SPCSL"), and references to SPRC include SPRC and its subsidiaries, including SPT and its subsidiaries.
PART I
ITEMS 1. AND 2. BUSINESS AND PROPERTIES
GENERAL
The Company, through the integrated network of its principal subsidiaries, transports freight over approximately 16,400 miles of first main track throughout the western United States. The Company operates in 16 states over five main routes. The Company serves most west coast ports and large population centers west of the Mississippi and connects with eastern railroads at Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Memphis and New Orleans. The Company's rail lines reach the principal Gulf ports south from Chicago and east from the Los Angeles basin. It interchanges with Mexican railroads at six gateways into Mexico. Mileage operated by the Company increased during 1995 due to an agreement entered into by the Company on April 13, 1995 with Burlington Northern Railroad Company ("BN") and The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company ("ATSF"), effective upon completion of the merger of those railroads on September 22, 1995, to provide trackage and haulage rights over portions of each other's rail lines.
The principal commodities hauled in the Company's carload operations are coal, chemicals and petroleum products, food and agricultural products and forest products (including paper, paper products and lumber). Intermodal container and trailer operations continue to be the Company's largest single traffic category. In 1995, the largest five shippers accounted for less than 17% of the Company's gross freight revenues, with no shipper providing more than 7% of such revenue.
In addition to its rail business, the Company historically has received substantial cash flow from "traditional" real estate sales and leasing activities. Beginning in 1989, transit corridor sales became a dominant component of the Company's asset sales program, with the Company usually retaining operating rights over these corridors to continue freight rail service to its customers. In 1995, however, the Company completed no transit corridor sales and no major corridor sales are pending at this time.
PROPOSED MERGER WITH UNION PACIFIC
On August 3, 1995, the Board of Directors of SPRC approved an agreement providing for the merger of SPRC and Union Pacific Railroad Company ("UPRR"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Union Pacific Corporation ("UP"). Under the terms of the agreement, a subsidiary of UP acquired 25% of the common stock of SPRC at a price of $25.00 per share pursuant to a tender offer. The merger requires approval by the Surface Transportation Board ("STB") of the Department of Transportation (successor to the Interstate Commerce Commission ("ICC")). Based upon the 255 day procedural schedule adopted by the ICC, the earliest a decision can be expected is August 1996. The shares purchased in the tender offer are held in a voting trust pending a decision by the STB. Following receipt of STB approval and the satisfaction of other conditions, SPRC (and the UP subsidiary that purchased SPRC stock in the cash tender offer) would be merged into UPRR. In the merger, each share of SPRC stock would be converted, at the holder's election (subject to proration), into the right to receive $25.00 in cash or 0.4065 shares of UP common stock. Of the shares of SPRC common stock outstanding immediately prior to the merger (other than the shares previously acquired by UP in the tender offer), 20% would be acquired for cash and 80% would be acquired in exchange for shares of UP common stock.
The merger agreement provides that prior to completion of the merger, or termination of the merger agreement if that occurs before the merger is completed, the business of SPRC and its subsidiaries generally will be conducted in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, or pursuant to "customary actions". Customary actions are defined as actions in the ordinary course of a person's business where the action is generally recognized as being customary and prudent for other major enterprises in the person's line of business. The merger agreement may be terminated by the Board of Directors of either SPRC or UP if the merger has not occurred on or prior to March 31, 1997. The agreement restricts SPRC, including the Company, with certain exceptions, from amending its articles or bylaws, paying
dividends, issuing stock, redeeming or repurchasing shares of its stock, making compensation changes, making loans, advances, capital contributions or investments (except for railroad and real estate joint ventures and certain other transactions) and engaging in transactions with affiliates. In addition, among other things, the agreement restricts SPRC, including the Company, from incurring debt other than pursuant to arrangements existing on the date of the merger agreement (the Company's $450 million of bank credit facilities and replacements therefor and refinancings thereof, and capital leases to finance the rebuilding of freight cars and purchase of equipment under existing commitments), plus borrowings not to exceed $12.5 million in the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995, $25 million in the fiscal year ending December 31, 1996, and $12.5 million in the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 1997.
On November 30, 1995, UPRR and SPRC filed an application for the proposed merger with the ICC and the application process is ongoing. The earliest closing of the transaction, if approved, would be September 1996.
On January 17, 1996 at a special meeting called to consider the proposed merger, the stockholders of SPRC voted to proceed with the transaction.
RAILROAD OPERATIONS
The following table sets forth certain freight and operating statistics relating to the Company's rail operations for the periods indicated. The operating ratios show consolidated operating expenses expressed as a percentage of consolidated operating revenues. The decrease in revenue per ton-mile evidences the intense competitive pressures under which the Company operates, particularly those affecting its intermodal activities, as well as increases in commodities with lower revenue per ton-mile. The increase in revenue ton-miles per gallon of fuel primarily reflects the results of the Company's program to rehabilitate and upgrade the quality of its locomotive fleet. The increase in labor productivity, as measured by revenue ton-miles per employee, is primarily the result of Company programs to limit the growth or reduce employment combined with increases in traffic volume. The increase in employment resulted from additional train and engine crews hired to improve customer service and additional maintenance of way employment associated with an increased capital program in 1995.
- ------------------ (1) Includes intermodal carloads with an assumed two containers per carload. Intermodal carloads hold from two to ten containers. (2) Calculated based on average monthly employment for 1995,1994 and 1993. (3) 1995 includes a special charge of $112.6 million. The operating ratio excluding the special charge would have been 96.8%.
SERVICE TERRITORY
The Company's routes and service territory are described below.
Central Corridor Route. The Central Corridor Route links Northern California and the Pacific Northwest with Kansas, Missouri and Illinois, traversing the Rocky Mountain states. The eastern end of this route reaches the rail gateway cities of Kansas City, St. Louis and Chicago. This route handles a diverse mix of traffic including eastbound forest products, perishables and processed foods, as well as significant volumes of finished automobiles and other manufactured goods. The bulk of the Company's low sulfur, high BTU coal traffic originates along this route in the mountainous territory of Colorado and Utah and moves east.
Pacific Coast Route (I-5 Corridor). The north-south route connects the forest product resource base of the Pacific Northwest with the major consuming markets in California and Arizona.
Sunset Route. The Company's Sunset Route is a direct line from the Los Angeles Basin to Houston and other Gulf Coast ports, as well as the eastern rail gateways of Memphis and New Orleans. This route structure supports the Company's presence in carload origination of chemicals and plastics in the Gulf region.
Golden State Route. This route connects Southern California and Arizona with the industrial midwest and the rail gateways of Kansas City, St. Louis and Chicago. A wide range of products is handled in the corridor including intermodal, metals and ores, agricultural products and miscellaneous manufactured products.
Mid-America Route. The Mid-America Route links the petrochemical producing region along the Gulf of Mexico with industrial users and consuming markets in the midwest and northeast. This route serves the cities of Dallas/Ft. Worth, Shreveport, Memphis, Kansas City and St. Louis.
Mexico. The Company serves Mexico through interchanges with Mexican railroads at six gateways in California, Texas and Arizona.
BN/ATSF Trackage Rights. On April 13, 1995, the Company entered into an agreement with BN and ATSF, effective upon completion of their merger on September 22, 1995, to provide trackage and haulage rights over portions of each other's rail lines. This trackage rights agreement extends the Company's Central Corridor route from Pueblo, Colorado to Ft. Worth, Texas and from Ft. Worth north through the grain producing regions of Oklahoma and Kansas to Kansas City. For intermodal and auto traffic, these trackage rights provide an additional route from Hutchinson, Kansas to Chicago.
TRAFFIC
Set out below is a comparison of the Company's carload volumes and gross freight revenues (before contract allowances and adjustments) by commodity groups in 1995. A more detailed discussion of the traffic generated by each group follows the table. For a discussion of the 1995 results of operations compared to those of 1994, reference is made to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Intermodal. The intermodal freight business consists of hauling freight containers or truck trailers by a combination of water, rail and motor carriers, with rail carriers serving as the link between motor carriers and between ports and motor carriers. The Company's marketing efforts are focused on direct negotiations with major steamship lines for international container traffic and with marketing agents (primarily shipper agents and consolidators) and motor carriers for domestic container and trailer traffic. This traffic is particularly sensitive to general economic conditions.
The Company's intermodal revenues are derived in large part from goods produced in the Pacific Rim and shipped by rail from west coast ports to east coast markets. This traffic is carried on the Company's lines from its terminals at Oakland or Los Angeles/Long Beach to Chicago, St. Louis, New Orleans or Houston, or through connecting carriers, beyond to the U.S. eastern seaboard. Most of this traffic uses the Company's Intermodal Container Transfer Facility ("ICTF") in Southern California. In some cases, motor carriers and railroads have begun to jointly market intermodal service. The Company provides stack- train and trailer-on-flatcar service among its 26 intermodal facilities across the system.
Coal. The Company serves important sources of low-sulfur, high BTU coal in Colorado and Utah, which has represented a growing share of the Company's commodity mix. This traffic is subject to intense competition from other coal sources, such as Eastern coal particularly from the Illinois Basin.
Chemical and Petroleum Products. The Company transports a wide range of industrial, chemical and plastic products which constitute the primary commodity and product groups included in this traffic. Most of the traffic originates within Texas where the Company directly serves chemical and plastics plants. The Company's routes enable it to transport these products from Texas directly to end-user markets on the west coast and through interchanges at major gateways to end-user markets on the east coast. Shipper demand is closely tied to fluctuations in end-user demand and also is sensitive to the availability of safe, predictable transportation service.
Food and Agricultural Products. Grain and grain products constitute the primary commodity groups included in this traffic. The Company is a major transporter of grain products to Mexico. Shipper demand is affected by competition among sources of grain and grain products as well as price fluctuations in international markets for key commodities. Other food and consumer goods included in
this traffic are shipments primarily from sources in California to consumer markets in the eastern part of the U.S.
Forest Products. This traffic includes lumber stock, plywood and various paper products. Most of the traffic originates in Oregon and Northern California with destinations throughout the U.S. However, certain product sources in the Pacific Northwest have been adversely affected by environmental concerns. In response, the Company is pursuing alternate sources in Canada and the Southern U.S. to increase volumes. The transportation market for lumber is affected by housing starts and remodeling activity, while the transportation market for paper products is driven by end-user demand for packaging and newsprint.
Metals and Ores. Metals and ores traffic includes both ferrous and non-ferrous metals and is concentrated on the steel mills of the west and shipments from copper mines and smelters in the southwest. These markets are sensitive to demand for construction and pipeline projects along with demand for industrial production and consumer goods with substantial metals components. The markets also are affected by commodity prices in international markets and subject to the substitution of imported metals.
Other. The traffic generated by the business development groups discussed above amounted to approximately 89.0% of the Company's gross freight revenues for 1995. Other commodity and product groups included in the Company's traffic include automobiles, automotive parts, construction materials, non-metallic minerals and government traffic.
Mexico. The Company's Mexico Group, headquartered in Houston, serves as a marketing and service link between the Company's business development groups and markets in Mexico. The Company maintains a working relationship with FNM. During 1995, 178,000 carloads, or 7.6% of the Company's total carloads, were from traffic with Mexico. The Company also provides intermodal container service linking the ICTF and Mexico City and has developed joint marketing arrangements with Mexican trucking companies establishing single through rates on a truck- rail-truck delivery system. Mexico has announced plans to privatize its rail system in the future. The impact this will have on Company traffic cannot be predicted.
PHYSICAL PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Roadway, Yards and Structures. At December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately 24,100 miles of track in operation, consisting of approximately 16,400 miles of first main track and approximately 7,700 miles of additional main track, passing track, way switching track and yard switching track. Miles of first main track include operating rights on 4,283 miles of track owned by other railroads. The Company regularly analyzes certain branchlines for possible sale, lease or abandonment. During 1995, the Company sold or leased approximately 172 miles of such lines. To the extent proceeds from such dispositions are less than the Company's basis in those properties, a non-cash financial statement loss would be recognized.
Principal railroad yard facilities owned by the Company are located at Eugene, Oregon; Sacramento, Roseville, Oakland, Los Angeles and West Colton, California; Houston, Texas; Pine Bluff, Arkansas; Kansas City, Kansas; Denver, Pueblo and Grand Junction, Colorado; and Salt Lake City, Utah. As part of its effort to increase the efficiency of operations, the Company is identifying and assessing opportunities for consolidation of its railroad yard facilities.
Equipment. The Company has been engaged in a program to expand and upgrade its locomotive and freight car fleets principally through capitalized lease financing. During 1995, the Company received and financed through capitalized lease 18 remanufactured locomotives, 279 new locomotives, 920 new hopper cars, 1,042 used hopper cars and 1,100 reconditioned freight cars. In addition, the Company finalized capitalized lease financing during 1995 for approximately 1,600 remanufactured freight cars delivered in 1994. The total capitalized lease obligation incurred in 1995
was approximately $522 million. The Company plans on completing the acquisition of approximately 500 reconditioned freight cars by May 1996 for an estimated $14.1 million in capitalized lease obligations.
At December 31, 1995, the Company owned (including equipment under capitalized leases) or leased the equipment described in the table below. The table excludes equipment held under short-term leases. At December 31, 1995, there were 79 locomotives subject to short-term leases. At December 31, 1995, there were approximately 1,855 non-serviceable freight cars in storage, which included freight cars awaiting sale to a third party for rehabilitation and leaseback and freight cars scheduled for repair.
At December 31, 1994, the Company owned and leased 2,106 and 307 locomotives, respectively and 32,344 and 12,285 freight cars, respectively.
The components of the Company's equipment lease and rental expense are shown below (in millions of dollars):
Year Ended December 31, ---------------------------- 1995 1994 1993 ------- ------- ------ Operating lease equipment............. $ 70.7 $ 89.9 $109.1 Net car hire expense from other railroads............................ 70.6 57.1 54.8 Private cars, intermodal and other equipment............................ 186.2 183.7 177.1 ------ ------ ------ Total............................ $327.5 $330.7 $341.0 ====== ====== ======
The Company plans on acquiring through operating leases approximately 3,300 freight cars during 1996 at an estimated annual operating lease expense in 1996 of $10.1 million and approximately $16 million annually thereafter.
Capital Expenditures and Maintenance. Improvement and on-going maintenance of roadway, structures and equipment are essential components of the Company's efforts to improve service and reduce operating costs. The Company faces large capital investment requirements in order to meet the challenges of its major competitors, particularly as a result of the recent BN/ATSF merger. The increasing service competition that has developed and will be accelerating will require substantial additional capital expenditures for additional equipment, track improvements and other new facilities and technology. See "Competition".
Over the past three years, the Company made the following railroad capital expenditures in order to maintain and improve train service (in millions of dollars):
RAILROAD CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Year Ended December 31, ----------------------------- 1995(1) 1994 1993(2) ------- ------ ------- Roadway and structures....... $381.3 $188.1 $209.5 Railroad Equipment: Locomotives............. 30.0 69.9 21.1 Freight cars............ 23.9 6.4 6.5 Other........................ 5.3 5.2 7.3 ------ ------ ------ Total................... $440.5 $269.6 $244.4 ====== ====== ====== Capitalized leases........... $522.3 $265.2 $ 57.0 ====== ====== ====== ____________ (1) Includes purchase of office building from SPRC for $41.2 million. (2) Excludes equipment previously under operating leases purchased with $65.3 million of the proceeds from certain securities offerings ($30.1 million for locomotives and $35.2 million for freight cars).
Roadway and structures capital expenditures for 1995 increased substantially over prior year amounts due to a number of factors including expenditures for main line double tracking in Arizona, various yard capacity improvements including new track connections to facilitate train movement over BN/ATSF trackage rights, an accelerated capital maintenance plan and the purchase of an intermodal facility in Chicago.
The Company's capital expenditures for railroad operations for 1996 are expected to be approximately $337 million (exclusive of capital leases), including $312 million for roadway and structures and $25 million for railroad equipment and other items. The Company plans on completing the acquisition of approximately 500 reconditioned freight cars by May 1996 for an estimated $14.1 million in capitalized lease obligations.
The following table shows the Company's expenses for on-going maintenance and repairs of roadway and structures and railroad equipment (including administrative and inspection costs) for the periods indicated (in millions of dollars):
MAINTENANCE EXPENDITURES
Year Ended December 31, ---------------------------- 1995 1994 1993 ---- ---- ---- Roadway and structures....... $174.8 $202.8 $247.1 Railroad Equipment: Locomotives............. 244.3 236.0 240.9 Freight cars............ 140.8 133.7 127.4 Other........................ 1.4 (0.6) 3.6 ------ ------ ------ Total................... $561.3 $571.9 $619.0 ====== ====== ======
TRANSIT CORRIDOR AND REAL ESTATE SALES
The disposition of urban and intercity transit corridors and surplus real estate, mostly in metropolitan areas along the Company's rights of way, has been a major component of the Company's business strategy and is conducted as part of the Company's ordinary course of business. The Company markets properties that are classified generally into two distinct types: (1) transit corridors and consolidated freight corridors, which are typically sold to public agencies, and (2) traditional real estate, which is typically sold to different groups of potential buyers. From January 1, 1989 through December 31, 1995, the Company received over $1.8 billion in proceeds from its real estate asset disposition program. During that time, such sales were necessary for the Company to meet its capital expenditure, debt service and other cash needs. Of the $1.8 billion in proceeds, a total of $380 million was received during 1994 and 1995, with $235 million coming from the Alameda Corridor sale in December 1994. Sales in 1995 totaled $60 million and did not include any substantial transit corridor sales. The Company has identified certain operating properties that it might sell in the future if it can do so without impacting its railroad operations. Management has not made a firm decision to remove any of these properties from its operating system. In order to enhance the value of certain properties and facilitate their disposition, the Company may in the future, as it has in the past, participate with others in the development of such properties by contributing the property and funding to joint ventures or other entities, participating in sale and leaseback arrangements and engaging in other transactions that do not involve immediate cash proceeds. In addition, in order to facilitate sales or otherwise enhance values of transit corridors and other facilities, the Company may form joint ventures with private partners or public entities or engage in other innovative transactions.
Transit Corridors. The Company's sales efforts have focused particularly on, and most of the proceeds since January 1, 1989 resulted from, the sale of transit corridor properties that consist of the Company's rights of way and related tracks and rail stations that provide a natural corridor over which a metropolitan, regional or other geographic area can establish and operate public transportation systems or consolidated freight corridors (for use by more than one railroad). The Company usually retains freight operating rights over these corridors to continue rail service to its customers. During 1994, the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach purchased SPT's Alameda Corridor for $235 million. Earlier sales include the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission's purchase of over $400 million of SPT's property and the Peninsula Corridor Joint County Powers Board's purchase of SPT's Peninsula Corridor
for approximately $220 million, with an additional $110 million of property covered by purchase options, approximately $65 million of which have not lapsed, been exercised or extinguished. There were no large transit corridor sales in 1995 and no large transit corridor sales are anticipated during 1996.
Traditional Real Estate. In addition to transit corridors, the Company sells traditional real estate that consists principally of industrial and commercial properties located in developed areas on the Company's system. The Company's supply of properties includes several thousand parcels that are available or could be made available for sale within the next few years (without including properties currently leased by the Company to tenants).
Lease Activities. The Company actively administers approximately 11,000 leases that represent most of the Company's annual rental income. Generally, the Company does not target its leased properties for sale unless the annual rental does not reflect an appropriate return on the property. Under its leases, the Company receives annual gross rental income of nearly $42 million, which includes income from uses of its rights of way for such purposes as signboards, longitudinal fiber optics and pipelines.
EMPLOYEES AND LABOR
Labor and related expenses accounted for approximately 38% of the Company's railroad operating expenses in 1995 (excluding the special charge). At December 31, 1995, the Company employed 19,089 persons, which represents an increase of approximately 1,079 from December 31, 1994. The December 31, 1995 employment figure includes 18,790 employed in the Company's rail operations. These increases resulted from additional train and engine crews brought on to improve customer service and additional maintenance of way employment associated with an increased capital program in 1995.
As of December 31, 1995, approximately 89% of the Company's railroad employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with railway labor organizations that are organized along craft lines, where employees are grouped together by job and historical practice. Historically, many collective bargaining agreements in the railroad industry have been negotiated on a nationwide basis with the railroads being represented by the National Railway Labor Conference. In November 1993, the Company withdrew its participation with the National Railway Labor Conference with respect to the current bargaining round indicating it would negotiate wage and work rule agreements separately from any nationwide negotiations conducted by other Class I railroads.
Labor relations in the railroad industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation under the Railway Labor Act ("RLA"). The most recent national collective bargaining agreements with the major railway labor organizations and the railroads, including the Company, became subject to negotiated modification in 1988, and negotiations failed to resolve the wage and work rule issues. After various presidential and legislative actions in 1991, because of its constrained financial condition, the Company was authorized to negotiate separately with certain of its employee unions, rather than on a nationwide basis with the railroads being represented by a bargaining committee, as is typically the case. These negotiations resulted in wage rates that were lower than the national rates for most of the Company's union employees and relieved the Company of the requirement to make certain lump sum payments to employees. These concessions were applied to the Company's railroad subsidiaries (other than D&RGW). The agreements covered over 15,400 union employees of the Company until they expired in 1995.
In November 1993, the Company entered into a labor agreement with the United Transportation Union ("UTU"), which represents approximately 2,300 trainmen and switchmen on the Company's Western Lines. The agreement, which resolved the issues from 1988 and continues through 1997, provided for a reduction of 210 surplus employees, the elimination of a reserve board (employees who are paid a percentage of salary but stay home awaiting recall), and a wage freeze through the end of
1997. As a result, the Company became the only Class I railroad without reserve boards for any of its lines.
All of the Company's labor agreements became subject to modification (except the Western Lines UTU Agreement) in January 1995. Wages for approximately half of the Company's employees covered by these agreements returned to wage levels prevailing under nationwide railway collective bargaining agreements in 1995. Wages for the other employees covered by the agreements (including the Western Lines UTU) do not require restoration to national wage levels and are subject to resolution in the current round of negotiations which began in late 1994. In addition, most of the Company's labor agreements (except for the agreement related to UTU employees on the Company's Western Lines) provide for cost-of- living increases on a semi-annual basis that began July 1, 1995. The additional cost to the Company of these automatic increases could be substantial.
As a result of local negotiations in the current bargaining round, the Company has entered into six agreements which run through 1997 (including the Western Lines UTU Agreement). Those agreements, which cover in excess of 6,800 employees, have been ratified by the union membership and cover all trainmen and switchmen on the St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company, the signalmen systemwide, yardmasters systemwide, switchmen on the Company's Eastern Lines, shopcraft supervisors on the St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company, locomotive engineers system wide, train dispatchers and the Company's intermodal facilities at Long Beach and Oakland. Those agreements do not provide for general wage increases; however, they do provide for a 3% lump sum payment based on the performance of the Company as measured by its operating ratio. A few of these agreements provided for cost of living increases on July 1, 1995 and on July 1, 1996 but none thereafter. As of February 1996, the Company is in negotiations with its clerical employees, shop craft employees and maintenance of way employees representing approximately 8,900 employees.
Under the RLA, labor agreements are renegotiated when they become open for modification, but their terms remain in effect until new agreements are reached. Typically, neither management nor labor is permitted to take economic action until extended procedures are exhausted.
Railroad industry personnel are covered by the Railroad Retirement Act ("RRA") instead of the Social Security Act. Employer contributions under the RRA are currently substantially higher than those under the Social Security Act and may rise further because of the increasing proportion of retired employees receiving benefits relative to the number of working employees.
Railroad industry personnel are also covered by the Federal Employer's Liability Act ("FELA") rather than by state workers' compensation systems. FELA is a fault-based system, with compensation for injuries settled by negotiation and litigation. By contrast, most other industries are covered under state- administered no-fault plans with standard compensation schedules.
Special Charge. In June 1995, the Company's Board of Directors approved plans aimed at reducing future operating costs and increasing productivity, which resulted in a $112.6 million pretax special charge. The charge includes $41 million for severance payments to be made for 582 employees (both management and labor), $4 million related to costs associated with terminating certain leased facilities, and approximately $68 million for the expected loss on the sale, lease or abandonment of 600 miles of light density rail lines.
GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION
The Company is subject to environmental, safety, health, and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses. In addition, the Company, like other rail common carriers, is subject to regulation by the Surface Transportation Board ("STB"), an independent agency within the U.S. Department of Transportation, by the Federal Railroad Administration, by state departments of transportation, and by some state regulatory agencies.
Prior to January 1, 1996, rail common carriers were subject to regulation by the Interstate Commerce Commission ("ICC"). Effective January 1, 1996, pursuant to the ICC Termination Act of 1995, the ICC was abolished and certain of its regulatory functions were transferred to the newly created STB. The STB has jurisdiction, which is limited in certain circumstances, over, among other things, rates charged by rail carriers for certain traffic movements, service levels, car rental payments, the terms under which one railroad may gain access to another railroad's traffic or facilities, extension or abandonment of rail lines, consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of rail common carriers and labor protection for certain transactions.
The Federal Railroad Administration has jurisdiction over railroad safety and equipment standards. State departments of transportation and regulatory agencies also have jurisdiction over certain local safety and operating matters; and these state and local agencies have become more aggressive in their exercise of jurisdiction.
COMPETITION
The Company's business faces intense competition from railroads and motor carriers that has increased significantly during the past year. Competition with other railroads and modes of transportation is generally based on the rates charged, as well as the quality and reliability of the service provided, including the ability to provide single line service. The Company's intermodal traffic and certain other traffic confront highly price sensitive competition, particularly from motor carriers. The consolidation in recent years of major western rail systems has resulted in particularly strong competition in the service territory of the Company. The Company's two major rail competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the resources of the Company, as well as facilities and technology that in many cases are more advanced than those of the Company. Competitive pressures have led to a downward pressure on rates. Should these declining margins continue, it could have an adverse effect on the Company's operating results.
The Company faces large capital investment requirements in order to meet the challenges of its major competitors, particularly as a result of the BN/ATSF merger in 1995. The increasing service competition that has developed and will be accelerating will require substantial additional capital expenditures for additional equipment, track improvements and other new facilities and technology. The Company has identified capital expenditures of more than $1 billion that it believes should be made in excess of normal capital expenditures over the next four years simply to maintain its current competitive position. The Company's two major competitors have substantially stronger cash flow and financial capabilities and their facilities and technology are more advanced than those of the Company. The completion of the BN/ATSF merger and the integration of that system occurred more quickly than the Company initially anticipated. The combined BN/ATSF is a substantially stronger competitor than either railroad was separately. The stronger financial condition and resources of the Company's major competitors will allow them to make more investments designed to enhance service, attract new customers, gain market share and achieve even more efficient operations. For the first time in several years, volumes and revenues on intermodal business have declined. The Company believes this is attributable, in large part, to substantially increased service competition from the Company's major competitors relating to transit time and consistency, areas in which the Company has historically lagged certain of its competitors. This intense service competition, including new single line service provided by the merged BN/ATSF, is expected to continue and is impacting other commodities as the BN/ATSF merger has created a much stronger competitor. BN/ATSF's ability to offer expanded single line service that the Company cannot offer to its customers will also negatively impact the Company. Pressure on the Company to improve service and price more aggressively is expected to continue and could adversely impact operating results because the Company does not expect to be able to reduce costs as rapidly as it would have without the increased service competition from the BN/ATSF or to expend capital equivalent to its competitors and compete with equal service. If SPRC's proposed merger with UPRR were not completed, management now believes the Company would have to shrink its service. After several years of extraordinary capital expenditures to rebuild its locomotive fleet, the Company will not be able to match the financial resources of BN/ATSF or UP going forward to provide
the facilities and other service enhancing investments necessary to be fully competitive on a stand-alone basis.
Certain segments of the Company's freight traffic, notably intermodal, face highly price sensitive competition from trucks, although improvements in railroad operating efficiencies are tending to lessen the truckers' cost advantages. Trucks are not obligated to provide or to maintain rights of way and they do not have to pay real estate taxes on their routes. In recent years, the trucking industry diverted a substantial amount of freight from the railroads as truck operators' efficiency over long distances increased. Because fuel costs constitute a larger percentage of the trucking industry's costs, declining fuel prices disproportionately benefit trucking operations as compared to railroad operations. Truck competition has also increased because of legislation removing many of the barriers to entry into the trucking business and allowing the use of wider, longer and heavier trailers and multiple trailer combinations in many areas.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
The Company's operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulation under environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions to the air, discharges to waters and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste or other materials. Inherent in the railroad operation of the Company is the risk of environmental liabilities as a result of both current and past operations. The Company regularly transports chemicals and other hazardous materials for shippers, as well as using hazardous materials in its own operations. Environmental liability can extend to previously owned properties, leased properties and properties owned by third parties, as well as properties currently owned and used by the Company. Environmental liabilities can be asserted by adjacent landowners or other third parties in toxic tort litigation. Also, the Company has indemnified certain property purchasers as to environmental contingencies.
In addition to costs incurred on an on-going basis associated with regulatory compliance in its business, the Company may have environmental liability in three general situations. First, under the Federal Comprehensive Environment Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 as amended ("CERCLA"), it might have liability for having disposed of wastes at waste disposal sites that are believed to pose threats to the public health or the environment, without regard to fault or the legality of waste generation or of the original disposal. Second, under CERCLA and applicable state statutes, the current owner or operator of any real property, not just waste disposal sites, may incur liability for hazardous substances located on the property or that have migrated to adjoining properties even though such wastes were deposited by a prior owner, operator or tenant. A former owner or operator of real property may incur liability for hazardous substances located on the property even though such wastes were deposited by another owner, operator or tenant; and a former owner or operator of real property may incur liability after the sale of the property for hazardous waste disposed on the property during the time that it owned, operated or leased the property. The third general area is that associated with the accidental release of hazardous materials or substances during a transportation incident, such as a derailment. Federal, state and local laws and regulations may impose (again, without regard to fault), requirements for clean-up of contaminated soils and surface or groundwater resulting from a derailment; and there may also be long-term monitoring requirements to evaluate the impacts on the environment and natural resources. In addition, adjacent land owners or other third parties sometimes initiate toxic tort litigation against the type of sites described above.
State and local agencies, particularly in California where the Company has extensive operations, are active in the environmental area. The regulation by multiple agencies can be expected to increase the Company's future environmental costs.
The Company has made and will continue to make substantial expenditures relating to the assessment and remediation of environmental conditions on its properties, including properties held for sale. During 1995, 1994 and 1993 the Company spent approximately $34.9 million, $20.8 million and $17.0 million, respectively, relating to the assessment and remediation of environmental conditions of operating properties and non-operating properties not held for sale, excluding the effects of the 1991
derailment at Dunsmuir, California. In 1995, 1994 and 1993, the Company also incurred approximately $9.6 million, $13.2 million and $12.4 million, respectively, for environmental matters relating to properties held for sale. Costs associated with environmental remediation of properties held for sale may be deferred to the extent such costs, together with estimated future costs and the existing cost basis of the property do not exceed, in the aggregate, the amount expected to be realized upon sale.
The Company owns or previously owned two properties and has a partial interest in four properties that are on the national priorities list ("NPL") under CERCLA, the federal "superfund" statute. The Company has been informed that it is or may be a potentially responsible party ("PRP"), together with multiple other PRP's, with respect to the remediation of eight other properties on such list. Certain other Company properties are included on lists of sites maintained under similar state laws. Inclusion of a site on such lists would allow federal or state "superfund" monies to be spent on clean-up at the sites if PRP's do not perform the clean-up. The law governing "superfund" sites provides that PRP's may be jointly and severally liable for the total costs of remediation. In some instances, liability may be allocated through litigation or negotiation among the PRP's based on equitable factors, including volume contribution. Of its properties, including the NPL and PRP properties described above, the Company has only four sites that individually involved future cost estimates for environmental matters as of December 31, 1995 in excess of $4 million. The following is a brief description of these properties, three of which (Roseville, Crystal Chemical and Sparks) are operating properties and the fourth (Sacramento) is a non-operating property held for sale.
Roseville Rail Yard--Roseville, CA. In 1985, the EPA ordered SPT to furnish a plan for investigation of hazardous wastes at its 640-acre Roseville, California locomotive facility and railroad yard which was contaminated through past cleaning operations. The examination of one part of the yard has been completed and the selected remedial alternative is in the construction stage. The Company estimates the cost of the selected remediation will range between $2.5 million and $4.5 million. Based on the Company's analysis of the currently available information, including the proposed partial remedial action, the total amount accrued for this site at December 31, 1995 was $4.1 million. The investigation of the remainder of the yard is in progress and may identify additional remediation costs that may be incurred in the future.
Crystal Chemical Company Site--Houston, TX. SPT is a prior landowner at a site near Houston, Texas that was operated as a herbicide manufacturing plant by Crystal Chemical Company ("Crystal"), a former lessee of SPT. In 1981, Crystal filed for bankruptcy. Voluntary Purchasing Groups, Inc. ("VPG") had also been involved with the site in connection with Crystal's operations. In late 1991, SPT and VPG jointly settled an action filed by the United States. As part of the settlement, SPT paid $3 million to the United States for past response costs, and VPG paid SPT $4.5 million to cover VPG's share of the settlement and estimated remediation costs. SPT is complying with a 1992 EPA order for soil and ground water remediation at the site. Based upon current estimates, payments to date and VPG's settlement payment, at December 31, 1995, the Company had accrued $4.0 million in its environmental reserves for Crystal.
Sparks Railyard/Pipeline Terminal--Sparks, NV. In 1991 the U.S. EPA ordered SPT and seven other responsible parties (Respondents) to investigate the sources of petroleum contamination in soils and groundwater at the Sparks Railyard/Pipeline Terminal and to institute a remedial action plan for removal of the petroleum contamination. SPT, along with the other respondents have reached settlements with plaintiffs in several consolidated civil lawsuits by adjacent landowners and governmental agencies, for claims related to the soils and groundwater contamination at the Terminal site. SPT's share of these settlements is approximately $9.6 million. Respondents have also constructed and put into operation a soils and groundwater treatment system that is expected to operate for at least the next five years. SPT's share of the costs of the operation and maintenance of the treatment system is estimated at $2 million over the five years. As of December 31, 1995, the Company had accrued $10 million in its environmental reserves including amounts due under the settlement agreements.
SPT Locomotive Works--Sacramento, CA. In June 1988, SPT agreed with a California regulatory agency to investigate the 240-acre Sacramento railroad facility. Soils at the site are contaminated and a contaminated groundwater plume has migrated off site. The investigation and remedial actions that may be required will take several years to complete. SPT is incurring on-going characterization and remediation costs for soil and groundwater remediation at certain of eleven areas on the site. For 1995, 1994 and 1993, these costs were approximately $9.4 million, $10.4 million and $10.0 million, respectively. The Sacramento property is included in property held for sale and estimated future environmental costs for expected investigation and remediation at Sacramento are approximately $12.0 million. This amount is not included in the Company's environmental reserves because the property is held for sale and future environmental costs are expected to be realized upon sale of the property, as discussed in the fourth paragraph of this section. The amount will be reviewed as on-going investigations are completed and future remediation decisions are made. Additional remediation costs may result.
The Company's total costs for the four sites described above and its other environmental matters cannot be predicted with certainty; however, the Company has accrued reserves for environmental matters with respect to operating and non-operating properties not held for sale, as well as certain properties previously sold, based on the costs estimated to be incurred when such estimated amounts (or at least a minimum amount) can be reasonably determined based on information available. At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the Company had accrued reserves for environmental contingencies of $51.9 million and $65.0 million, respectively. It is possible that additional losses will be incurred, but such amounts cannot be reasonably estimated. The Company does not believe that the disposition of environmental matters known to the Company will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or liquidity; however, there can be no assurance that the impact of such matters on its results of operations for any given reporting period will not be material.
ITEM 3.