Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway) was incorporated in 1894 under the name Southern Railway Company (Southern) in the Commonwealth of Virginia and, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, NS Rail), is primarily engaged in the transportation of freight by rail.
On June 1, l982, Southern and Norfolk and Western Railway Company (Norfolk and Western) became subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern Corporation (NS), a transportation holding company. Effective December 31, 1990, NS transferred all the common stock of Norfolk and Western to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company. Accordingly, all the common stock of Norfolk and Western, which is its only voting security, is owned by Norfolk Southern Railway, and all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway (16,668,997 shares) is owned directly by NS. NS common stock is publicly held and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
There remain issued and outstanding as of December 31, 1996, 1,197,027 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's $2.60 Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (Series A Stock), of which 1,096,907 shares were held by other than subsidiaries. The Series A Stock is entitled to one vote per share, is nonconvertible, and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
PROPOSED ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL BY NS - On October 24, 1996, in response to the October 15, 1996, announcement that Conrail Inc. (Conrail) had entered into a merger agreement with CSX Corporation, NS commenced an all-cash tender offer for all the Common Stock and Series A ESOP Convertible Junior Preferred Stock of Conrail (collectively, Shares), including in each case the associated Common Stock Purchase Rights. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 61 for additional details.
On February 11, 1997, NS acquired 8.2 million Shares of Conrail stock (approximately 9.9 percent of the then outstanding Conrail Common Stock), representing the approximate maximum number NS could buy without triggering Conrail's anti-takeover defenses, at a cost of $115 per Share, or $943 million in the aggregate. The purchase was financed through issuance of commercial paper backed by a portion of the revolving debt capacity under the credit facility obtained in connection with the proposed acquisition of Conrail. These Shares have been placed in a voting trust and under certain circumstances might have to be sold at a loss. On February 12, 1997, NS commenced a second tender offer for the remaining Conrail Shares and has notified Conrail of its intention to conduct a proxy contest in connection with Conrail's 1997 Annual Meeting of shareholders, currently scheduled for December 19, 1997, seeking, among other things, to remove certain of the current members of the Conrail Board and to elect a new slate of nominees designated by NS.
Pursuant to an amendment to the merger agreement between CSX and Conrail announced on March 7, 1997, CSX has offered to purchase all Shares for $115 per Share in cash and CSX is permitted to enter into negotiations with other parties, including NS, concerning the acquisition of the securities or assets, or concessions relating to the assets or operations, of Conrail. NS and CSX are negotiating a comprehensive resolution of the issues confronting the eastern railroads based on the proposal submitted by NS to both CSX and Conrail on February 24, 1997. Such a resolution could involve a joint acquisition of Shares by NS and CSX. However, unless and until such negotiations are successfully concluded, NS intends to continue in effect its tender offer for all Shares not owned by NS.
For additional information concerning NS' pending tender offer for Shares not owned by NS, reference is made to NS' Tender Offer Statement on Schedule 14D-1, together with the exhibits thereto, initially filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 12, 1997, as amended.
PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE PROGRAM - In June 1989, NS announced its intention to purchase up to 250,000 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's Series A Stock during the subsequent two-year period. Since then, NS extended the stock purchase program through 1996. As of December 31, 1996, NS had purchased 176,608 shares of Series A Stock at a total cost of $6.7 million. Consequently, as of December 31, 1996, NS held 94.8 percent of the voting stock of Norfolk Southern Railway.
OPERATIONS - As of December 31, 1996, NS Rail operated approximately 14,300 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia, and the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, 12,094 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or trackage rights; most of this total are main line track. In addition, it operates 10,800 miles of passing, industrial, yard and side tracks.
NS Rail has major leased lines between Cincinnati, Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and in the State of North Carolina.
The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.
The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 330 miles, expired by their terms at the end of 1994. Although a lease extension agreement was approved by the boards of both NS and the North Carolina Railroad Company (NCRR) and by the shareholders of NCRR, the U.S. District Court in Raleigh ruled that there was no quorum at the stockholders' meeting, and enjoined the parties from performing under the extension agreement. NCRR has suits pending against NS and various subsidiaries in federal court in Raleigh to enforce rights under the expired leases and at the STB to seek the establishment of terms and conditions of NS Rail's continued use, including interim and long-term compensation. Also, certain NCRR stockholders earlier had filed four separate, and still pending, derivative actions challenging the adequacy of the rental terms in the extension agreement. NS Rail is presently operating over the leased lines under the requirements of federal law, and will continue to do so until the matter has been resolved through agreement or a decision by the STB establishing reasonable conditions or permitting discontinuance of such operations. Whatever the ultimate resolution of the litigation, it is not expected to have a material effect on NS Rail's consolidated financial statements.
NS Rail's lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. These lines also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS Rail include: Norfolk, Virginia; Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah and Brunswick, Georgia; and Jacksonville, Florida. Gulf Coast ports served include: Mobile, Alabama, and New Orleans, Louisiana.
NS Rail's lines reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta, Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition, a haulage arrangement with the Florida East Coast Railway allows NS Rail to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale. The system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Ohio; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Maryland, to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
NS Rail and other railroads have entered into service interruption agreements, effective December 30, 1994, providing indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified industry issues. If NS Rail were so affected, it could receive daily indemnities from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS Rail were affected, it could be required to pay indemnities to those parties. If NS Rail were required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities required of it under these agreements--an event considered unlikely at this time--such liability should not exceed approximately $85 million.
COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke and iron ore--most of which is bituminous coal--is NS Rail's principal commodity group. NS Rail originated 116.8 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 1996 and handled a total of 130.2 million tons. Originated tonnage increased 2 percent from 114.2 million tons in 1995, and total tons handled increased 4 percent from 125.1 million tons in 1995. Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore account for about 32 percent of NS Rail's total operating revenues.
Of this originated coal, coke and iron ore, approximately 26.9 million tons moved for export, principally through NS Rail's pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Virginia; 19.7 million tons moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 62.3 million tons of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 7.9 million tons moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users.
NS Rail moved 8.7 million tons of originated coal, coke and iron ore to various docks on the Ohio River and 3.6 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS Rail was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River.
Total coal handled through all system ports in 1996 was 41.7 million tons. Of this total, 71 percent moved through the pier facilities at Lamberts Point. In 1996, total tonnage handled at Lamberts Point, including coastwise traffic, was 29.5 million tons, a 2 percent increase from the 28.9 million tons handled in 1995.
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 26. MERCHANDISE RAIL TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings (Paper/Forest; Chemicals; Automotive; Agriculture; and Metals/Construction). Total NS Rail merchandise revenues in 1996 were $2.8 billion, a 2 percent increase over 1995. Merchandise carloads handled in 1996 were 3.24 million, compared with 3.18 million handled in 1995, an increase of 2 percent.
In 1996, 106.2 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 68 percent of total rail merchandise tonnage handled by NS Rail, originated on line. The balance of NS Rail's merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers (mostly railroads, with some truck, water and highway as well), usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS Rail-served received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis, and Louisville.
Revenues in four of the six market groups comprising merchandise traffic improved in 1996 over 1995. The biggest gains were in Automotive, up $39.6 million; Chemicals, up $19.4 million; and Intermodal, up $13.1 million.
See the discussion of merchandise rail traffic by commodity group in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 26.
FREIGHT RATES - In 1996, NS Rail continued its reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as the predominant pricing mechanism. Thus, a major portion of NS Rail's freight business is not economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices. In 1996, NS Rail was found by the STB to be "revenue adequate" based on results for the year 1995. A railroad is "revenue adequate" under the applicable law when its return on net investment exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of capital.
The revenue adequacy measure is one of several factors considered by the STB when it is called upon to rule on the reasonableness of regulated rates.
PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS Rail's railroads' lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, North Carolina. Former Amtrak operations between East St. Louis and Centralia, Illinois, were discontinued by Amtrak on November 3, 1993. Commuter trains continued operations on the NS Rail line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia, providing for rental and for reimbursement of related expenses incurred by NS Rail. During 1993, a lease of the Chicago to Manhattan, Illinois, line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois replaced an agreement under which NS Rail had provided commuter rail service for the Authority. RAILWAY PROPERTY:
The average age of the freight car fleet at December 31, 1996, was 22.3 years. During 1996, 7,485 freight cars were retired. As of December 31, 1996, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 15.4 years. During 1996, 105 locomotives, the average age of which was 24.4 years, were retired. Since 1988, more than 23,000 coal cars have been rebodied. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs are intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability. In past years, the bad order ratio reflected the storage of certain types of cars which were not in high demand. The ratio has declined more recently as a result of a disposition program for underutilized, unserviceable and over-age revenue cars. In this connection, an orderly disposition of 17,000 freight cars, begun in October 1994, was substantially complete at the end of 1996.
TRACKAGE - All NS Rail trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) ranges from 100 to 140 pounds per yard. Of the 22,369 miles of track maintained as of December 31, 1996, 15,877 were laid with welded rail.
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS Rail microwave system, consisting of 6,960 radio path miles, 398 active stations and 5 passive repeater stations, provides communications between most operating locations. The microwave system is used principally for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 12,762 road miles operated by NS Rail, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,400 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 230 miles are controlled by data radio from 14 microwave site locations) and 2,600 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key system locations to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Ga. Operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, these facilities afford substantial capacity for, and are utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
OTHER - NS Rail has extensive facilities for support of railroad operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
ENCUMBRANCES - Certain rail equipment is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to $589.9 million as of December 31, 1996, and $540.4 million as of December 31, 1995. In addition, a portion of NS Rail's properties is subject to liens securing as of December 31, 1996, and 1995, approximately $1.5 million and $27.5 million of mortgage debt, respectively.
Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services. For 1997, NS Rail is planning $781 million of capital spending. Looking further ahead, total capital spending is expected to be similar to 1995 and 1996 levels. A substantial portion of future capital spending is expected to be funded through internally generated cash, although debt financing will continue as the primary funding source for equipment acquisitions.
Acquisition by NS of all or part of Conrail (see page 4) could cause a change in the planned capital spending for NS Rail.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS Rail goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS Rail's capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position.
See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 26, and in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 61. EMPLOYEES - NS Rail employed an average of 23,361 employees in 1996, compared with an average of 24,488 in 1995 (including Norfolk Southern Corporation's employees whose primary duties relate to rail operations). The approximate average cost per employee during 1996 was $46,423 in wages and $18,943 in employee benefits. Approximately 81 percent of these employees are represented by various labor organizations. As of the end of 1996, NS Rail had negotiated labor agreements with all of its unions, except the American Train Dispatchers, which represents about 200 employees. The accords with the 12 other union organizations, which include compensation settlements in line with other major industries, will not be due for change until after January 1, 2000.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental, safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS Rail is subject to regulation by the STB, which succeeded the ICC on January 1, 1996. The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, is expected to continue under the STB. Thus it appears that additional rail business will be exempted from regulation in the future. Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments, which no longer require regulatory approval, effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. Over 80 percent of NS Rail's freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts.
COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling, and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially for higher valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products. Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in- process, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize problems at successive production stages.
NS Rail's primary competitor is the CSX system, both operate throughout much of the same territory. Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. NS Rail also competes with motor carriers and water carriers, and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage. Consummation of the proposed merger agreement between Conrail and CSX (see page 4) could result in a serious imbalance in rail competition in the East--an outcome NS is resisting vigorously on a number of fronts and that the negotiations with CSX could prevent. Certain cooperative strategies between railroads and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets. A subsidiary of NS, which is not part of NS Rail, entered into such a strategy with a Conrail subsidiary forming a partnership in 1993 which offered intermodal service using RoadRailer (Registered Trademark) equipment. NS Rail provides some of the rail line-haul for this partnership.
Item 3.