Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway) was incorporated in 1894 under the name Southern Railway Company (Southern) in the Commonwealth of Virginia and, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, NS Rail), is primarily engaged in the transportation of freight by rail.
On June 1, l982, Southern and Norfolk and Western Railway Company (Norfolk and Western) became subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern Corporation (NS), a transportation holding company. Effective December 31, 1990, NS transferred all the common stock of Norfolk and Western to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company. Accordingly, all the common stock of Norfolk and Western, which is its only voting security, is owned by Norfolk Southern Railway, and all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway (16,668,997 shares) is owned directly by NS. NS common stock is publicly held and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
There remain issued and outstanding as of February 29, 1996, 1,197,027 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's $2.60 Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (Series A Stock), of which 1,096,907 shares (including 74 shares not entitled to vote) were held by other than subsidiaries. The Series A Stock is entitled to one vote per share, is nonconvertible, and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
STOCK PURCHASE PROGRAM - On June 2, 1989, NS announced that it intended to purchase up to 250,000 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's Series A Stock during the subsequent two-year period. In May 1991, NS extended the previously announced stock purchase program through 1993. In March 1994, NS announced that it would continue purchasing up to 250,000 shares of the Series A Stock through 1996. As of February 29, 1996, NS had purchased 131,128 shares of preferred stock at a total cost of approximately $4.8 million. Consequently, as of February 29, 1996, NS held 94.6 percent of the voting stock of Norfolk Southern Railway.
OPERATIONS - As of December 3l, l995, NS Rail operated more than 14,500 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia, and the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, 12,208 miles are owned, with the balance operated under lease or trackage rights; most of this total are main line. In addition, NS Rail operates approximately 11,000 miles of passing, industrial, yard and side tracks.
NS Rail has major leased lines between Cincinnati, Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and in the State of North Carolina.
The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.
The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 330 miles, expired by their terms at the end of 1994. Following extensive negotiations, the terms of renewal contained in a Lease Extension Agreement were approved by the respective parties' boards of directors in August 1995, and, subject to a court challenge as to the presence of the required quorum of private stockholders ("Quorum Challenge"), by the stockholders of North Carolina Railroad Company (NCRR) at their meeting in December. Also, certain NCRR stockholders earlier had filed four separate, and still-pending, derivative actions challenging the adequacy of the new rental terms, which provide for an annual rental of $8.0 million in 1995, with adjustments for inflation in each of the succeeding years of the lease. Pending resolution of the Quorum Challenge, NS Rail continues to operate over NCRR lines under the rental terms contained in the Lease Extension Agreement. If the Quorum Challenge is successful, and if the NCRR is unable to obtain stockholder approval of the Lease Extension Agreement at a subsequent meeting, NS Rail could be required to operate over these NCRR lines under conditions prescribed by regulatory authority, or they might operate over one or more alternate routes. Whatever the ultimate resolution of this matter, it is not expected to have a material effect on NS Rail's consolidated financial position.
NS Rail's lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. These lines also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS Rail include: Norfolk, Va.; Morehead City, N.C.; Charleston, S.C.; Savannah and Brunswick, Ga.; and Jacksonville, Fl. Gulf Coast ports served include: Mobile, Al., and New Orleans, La.
NS Rail's lines reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta, Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition, a haulage arrangement with the Florida East Coast Railway allows NS Rail to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale. The system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Oh.; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Md., to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
NS Rail and other railroads have entered into service interruption agreements, effective December 30, 1994, providing indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified industry issues. If NS Rail were so affected, it could receive daily indemnities from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS Rail were affected, NS Rail could be required to pay indemnities to those parties. If NS Rail were required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities required of it under these agreements--an event considered unlikely at this time--such liability should not exceed approximately $85 million.
RAILWAY OPERATING REVENUES - NS Rail's railway operating revenues totaled $4.0 billion in 1995. These revenues were received for transporting 280.6 million tons, of which 219.4 million tons originated on line, 242.7 million tons terminated on line (including 187.1 million tons of local traffic--originating and terminating on line) and approximately 5.6 million tons were overhead traffic (neither originating nor terminating on line).
COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke and iron ore--most of which is bituminous coal--is NS Rail's principal commodity group. NS Rail originated 114.2 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 1995 and handled a total of 125.1 million tons. Originated tonnage increased 0.4 percent from 114.7 million tons in 1994, and total tons handled decreased 0.6 percent from 125.9 million tons in 1994. Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore, which accounted for 31 percent of NS Rail's total railway operating revenues and 34 percent of total revenue ton miles in 1995, were $1.24 billion, a decrease of 2 percent from $1.26 billion in 1994.
Of the 111.2 million tons of coal originating on NS Rail in 1995, the approximate breakdown by origin state is as follows: 41.2 million tons from West Virginia, 34.4 million tons from Virginia, 23.1 million tons from Kentucky, 7.1 million tons from Illinois, 3.6 million tons from Alabama, 1.6 million tons from Tennessee, and 0.2 million tons from Indiana. Of this NS Rail-origin coal, approximately 25.7 million tons moved for export, principally through NS Rail's pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Va.; 18.6 million tons moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 58.7 million tons of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 8.2 million tons moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users. NS Rail moved 9.4 million tons of originated coal to various docks on the Ohio River for further movement by barge and 3.3 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS Rail was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River.
Total coal tonnage handled through all system ports in 1995 was 41.7 million. Of this total, 69 percent moved through the pier facilities at Lamberts Point. In 1995, total tonnage handled at Lamberts Point, including coastwise traffic, was 28.9 million tons, a 4 percent increase from the 27.8 million tons handled in 1994.
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 26.
MERCHANDISE RAIL TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings (Paper/Forest; Chemicals; Automotive; Agriculture; and Metals/Construction). Total NS Rail merchandise revenues increased in 1995 to $2.66 billion, a 4 percent increase over 1994. Merchandise carloads handled in 1995 were 3.18 million, compared with 3.03 million handled in 1994, an increase of 5 percent.
In 1995, 105.2 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 68 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS Rail, originated on line. The balance of NS Rail's merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers (mostly railroads, with some truck, water and highway as well), usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS Rail-received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis, and Louisville.
Revenues in all six market groups comprising merchandise traffic improved in 1995 over 1994, and in 1994 over 1993. The biggest gains in 1995 were in Intermodal, up $44.9 million; Automotive, up $22.0 million; and Metals/Construction, up $18.1 million.
See the discussion of merchandise rail traffic by commodity group in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 26.
FREIGHT RATES - In 1995, NS Rail continued its reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as its predominant pricing mechanisms. Thus, a major portion of NS Rail's freight business is not economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices. This situation is not expected to change in 1996 after the January 1 termination of the ICC and transfer of its functions to a new agency, the Surface Transportation Board (STB).
In 1995, the ICC found NS Rail "revenue inadequate" based on results for the year 1994. A railroad is "revenue inadequate" under the Interstate Commerce Act when its return on net investment does not exceed the rail industry's composite cost of capital. The revenue adequacy measure is used by the STB as one of the factors in its determination of reasonableness of regulated rates.
PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS Rail's lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, N.C. Former Amtrak operations between East St. Louis and Centralia, Il., were discontinued by Amtrak on November 3, 1993. Commuter trains continued operations on the NS Rail line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia, providing for reimbursement of related expenses incurred by NS Rail. During 1993, a lease of the Chicago to Manhattan, Il., line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois replaced an agreement under which NS Rail had provided commuter rail service for the Authority.
RAILWAY PROPERTY:
The average age of the freight car fleet at December 31, 1995, was 22.0 years. During 1995, NS Rail retired 7,247 freight cars. As of December 31, 1995, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 15.7 years. During 1995, NS Rail retired 67 locomotives, the average age of which was 22.6 years. Since 1988, NS Rail has rebodied more than 20,500 coal cars. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than is inferable from the high percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
NS Rail continues freight car and locomotive maintenance programs to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability. In recent years, the bad order ratio reflects the storage of certain types of cars which are not in high demand. Funds were not spent to repair certain types of cars for which present and future customers' needs could be adequately met without such repair programs. Also, NS Rail's own standards of what constitutes a "serviceable" car have risen, and NS Rail continues its disposition program for underutilized, unserviceable and overage cars. In this connection, NS Rail began an orderly disposition of up to 17,000 freight cars in October 1994. Through the end of 1995, 7,272 of these cars had been sold.
TRACKAGE - All NS Rail trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) is heavyweight rail ranging from 100 to 140 pounds per yard. Of the 22,514 miles of track maintained by NS Rail as of December 31, 1995, 15,787 miles were laid with welded rail.
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS Rail microwave system, consisting of 6,600 radio path miles, 376 active stations and 5 passive repeater stations, provides communications for Norfolk, Buffalo, Detroit, Fort Wayne, Chicago, Kansas City, St. Louis, Washington, D.C., Atlanta, New Orleans, Jacksonville, Memphis, Cincinnati and most operating locations between these cities. The microwave system provides service for approximately 17,200 individual telephone circuits. The microwave system is used principally for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors. Extension of microwave communications to low density or operations support facilities is accomplished via microwave interface to buried fiber- optic or copper cables.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 12,885 road miles operated by NS Rail, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,400 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 100 miles are controlled by data radio from seven microwave site locations) and 2,800 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key locations on NS Rail to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Ga. System operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, this facility affords substantial capacity for, and is utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
OTHER - NS Rail has extensive facilities for support of railroad operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
ENCUMBRANCES - Certain rail rolling stock is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $540.4 million as of December 31, 1995, and $497.2 million as of December 31, 1994. In addition, a significant portion of NS Rail's properties are subject to liens securing as of December 31, 1995, and 1994, approximately $27.5 million and $33.9 million of mortgage debt, respectively.
NS Rail's capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the Company's ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services. For 1996, NS Rail is planning $667 million of capital spending. NS Rail anticipates that a portion of its locomotive acquisitions in 1996 will be financed using capitalized leases similar to the 1995 leases (see note 8 on page 51). In 1996, equipment financing needs may be somewhat lower than in 1995, as proceeds from the sale of freight cars will be used for some equipment acquisitions. Looking further ahead, total capital spending is expected to continue to be similar to the 1995 level. A substantial portion of future capital spending is expected to be funded through internally generated cash, although debt financing will continue as the primary funding source for equipment acquisitions.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS Rail goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS Rail's capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position.
See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 26, and in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 61.
EMPLOYEES - NS Rail employed an average of 24,488 employees in 1995, compared with an average of 24,710 in 1994 (including Norfolk Southern Corporation's employees whose primary duties relate to rail operations). The approximate average cost per rail-related employee during 1995 was $43,965 in wages and $18,813 in employee benefits. Approximately 81 percent of these employees are represented by various labor organizations. A tentative settlement was reached with the United Transportation Union, which represents the largest number of employees in the railroad industry. The settlement requires ratification by the members before acceptance. The negotiation of this settlement demonstrated that national handling produces the quickest path to agreement. Negotiations with the other unions are progressing.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental, safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS Rail is subject to regulation by the Surface Transportation Board (STB), which succeeded the ICC on January 1, 1996. The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, is expected to continue under the STB. Thus it appears that additional rail business will be exempted from regulation in the future. Significant exemptions for NS Rail are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments, which no longer require regulatory approval, effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. Over 80 percent of NS Rail's freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts.
COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling, and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially for higher valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products. Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in- process, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize problems at successive production stages.
NS Rail's primary competitor is the CSX system, which operates throughout much of the same territory served by NS Rail. Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. NS Rail also competes with motor carriers and water carriers, and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage. Increasingly, cooperative strategies between railroads and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets. A subsidiary of NS, which is not part of NS Rail, entered into such a strategy with a Conrail subsidiary forming a partnership in 1993 which offered intermodal service using RoadRailer(Registered Trademark) equipment. NS Rail provides some of the rail line-haul for this partnership.
Item 3.