Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway) was incorporated in 1894 under the name Southern Railway Company (Southern) in the Commonwealth of Virginia and, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, NS Rail), is primarily engaged in the transportation of freight by rail.
On June 1, l982, Southern and Norfolk and Western Railway Company (Norfolk and Western) became subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern Corporation (NS), a transportation holding company. Effective December 31, 1990, NS transferred all the common stock of Norfolk and Western to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company. Accordingly, all the common stock of Norfolk and Western, which is its only voting security, is owned by Norfolk Southern Railway, and all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway (16,668,997 shares) is owned directly by NS. NS common stock is publicly held and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
There remain issued and outstanding as of December 31, 1997, 1,197,027 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's $2.60 Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (Series A Stock), of which 1,096,907 shares were held by other than subsidiaries. The Series A Stock is entitled to one vote per share, is nonconvertible, and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. In June 1989, NS announced its intention to purchase up to 250,000 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's Series A Stock during the subsequent two-year period. Subsequently, NS extended the stock purchase program through 1996. As of Dec. 31, 1996, NS had purchased 176,608 shares of Series A Stock at a total cost of $6.7 million. As of Dec. 31, 1997, NS held a total of 176,703 shares; consequently, as of the same date, NS held 94.8 percent of the voting stock of Norfolk Southern Railway.
JOINT ACQUISITION OF CONRAIL INC. BY NS - During 1997, NS and CSX Corporation (CSX) completed the acquisition of Conrail Inc. equity (see "Joint Acquisition of Conrail by NS" on page 34).
OPERATIONS - As of Dec. 31, 1997, NS Rail operated approximately 14,400 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia, and in the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, 12,101 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or trackage rights; most of this total is main line track. In addition, NS Rail operates 10,838 miles of passing, industrial, yard and side tracks.
NS Rail has major leased lines between Cincinnati, Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and in the State of North Carolina.
The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.
The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 330 miles, expired by their terms at the end of 1994. Although a lease extension agreement was approved by the boards of both NS and the North Carolina Railroad Company (NCRR) and by the stockholders of NCRR, the U.S. District Court in Raleigh ruled that there was no quorum at the stockholders' meeting and enjoined the parties from performing under the extension agreement. NCRR has suits pending against NS and various subsidiaries in federal court in Raleigh to enforce rights under the expired leases and at the STB to seek the establishment of terms and conditions of NS Rail's continued use and the compensation therefor. Also, certain NCRR stockholders earlier had filed four separate, and still pending, derivative actions challenging the adequacy of the rental terms in the extension agreement. NS Rail presently is operating over the leased lines under the requirements of federal law, and will continue to do so until the matter has been resolved through agreement or a decision by the STB establishing reasonable conditions or permitting discontinuance of such operations. Whatever the ultimate resolution of the litigation, it is not expected to have a material effect on NS Rail's consolidated financial statements.
NS Rail's lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. These lines also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS include: Norfolk, Virginia; Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah and Brunswick, Georgia; and Jacksonville, Florida. Gulf Coast ports served include: Mobile, Alabama, and New Orleans, Louisiana.
NS Rail's lines reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta, Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition, a haulage arrangement with the Florida East Coast Railway allows NS Rail to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale. The system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Ohio; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Maryland, to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
Implementation of the Conrail transaction should expand NS Rail's service area considerably, giving it access to most of the major ports on the East Coast, to New York City and the Northeast, and to the Midwest. Additional information is provided in "Management's Discussion and Analysis," beginning on page 25, and in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
NS Rail and other railroads have entered into service interruption agreements, effective Dec. 30, 1994, providing indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified industry issues. If NS Rail was so affected, it could receive daily indemnities from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS Rail were affected, it could be required to pay indemnities to those parties. If NS Rail were required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities required of it under these agreements -- an event considered unlikely at this time -- such liability should not exceed approximately $85 million.
COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke and iron ore -- most of which is bituminous coal -- is NS Rail's principal commodity group. They originated 119 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 1997 and handled a total of 134 million tons. Originated tonnage increased 2 percent from 117 million tons in 1996, and total tons handled increased 3 percent from 130 million tons in 1996. Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore account for about 31 percent of NS' total railway operating revenues.
Of this 119 million tons, approximately 28 million moved for export, principally through NS Rail's pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Virginia; 19 million moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 64 million of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 8 million moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users.
NS Rail moved 9 million tons of originated coal, coke and iron ore to various docks on the Ohio River, and 5 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS Rail was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River.
Total coal handled through all system ports in 1997 was 45 million tons. Of this total, 71 percent, or 32 million tons (including coastwise traffic), moved through Lamberts Point, a 7 percent increase, compared with the 30 million tons handled in 1996.
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 25.
MERCHANDISE TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings: Paper, Clay, and Forest Products; Chemicals; Automotive; Agriculture, Government, and Consumer Products; and Metals and Construction. Total merchandise revenues in 1997 were $2.92 billion, a 5 percent increase, compared with 1996. Merchandise carloads handled in 1997 were 3.43 million, compared with 3.24 million handled in 1996, an increase of 6 percent.
In 1997, 111 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 67 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS Rail, originated on line. The balance of merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers, usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS Rail-received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis and Louisville.
Revenues in five of the six market groups comprising merchandise traffic improved in 1997. The largest gains were in Intermodal, up $60 million; Paper, Clay and Forest Products, up $26 million; and Chemicals, up $25 million.
See the discussion of merchandise rail traffic by commodity group in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 25.
FREIGHT RATES - In 1997, NS Rail continued its reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as the predominant pricing mechanism. Thus, a major portion of NS Rail's freight business is not economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices.
In 1997, NS Rail was found by the STB to be "revenue adequate" based on results for the year 1996. A railroad is "revenue adequate" under the applicable law when its return on net investment exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of capital.
The revenue adequacy measure is one of several factors considered by the STB when it is called upon to rule on the reasonableness of regulated rates.
PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS Rail's lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, North Carolina. Commuter trains are operated on the NS Rail line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Both of these services are under contracts providing for reimbursement of related expenses incurred by NS Rail. NS Rail also leases the Chicago to Manhattan, Illinois, line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois.
Should the Conrail transaction become effective as proposed, NS Rail will accommodate substantially increased Amtrak and commuter passenger mileage and will conduct significant freight operations over trackage owned by Amtrak or by commuter entities.
RAILWAY PROPERTY:
The average age of the freight car fleet at Dec. 31, 1997, was 23.1 years. During 1997, 2,250 freight cars were retired. As of Dec. 31, 1997, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 15.3 years. During 1997, 78 locomotives, the average age of which was 23.3 years, were retired. Since 1988, more than 25,100 coal cars have been rebodied. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs are intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability. In past years, the freight car bad order ratio reflected the storage of certain types of cars which were not in high demand. The ratio has declined more recently as a result of a disposition program for underutilized, unserviceable and over-age revenue cars. In this connection, an orderly disposition of 17,000 freight cars, begun in October 1994, was completed in 1997. The locomotive bad order ratio rose in 1997, particularly in the early months of the year as older units required additional servicing and some new units were out-of-service related to warranty work. By year-end, the locomotive bad order ratio had returned to a more historic level.
TRACKAGE - All NS Rail trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 95 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) ranges from 100 to 140 pounds per yard. Of the 22,427 miles of track maintained as of Dec. 31, 1997, 15,878 were laid with welded rail.
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS Rail microwave system, consisting of 7,610 radio path miles, 417 active stations and 4 passive repeater stations, provides communications between most operating locations. The microwave system is used principally for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 12,784 road miles operated by NS Rail, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,400 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 560 miles are controlled by data radio from 43 microwave site locations) and 2,500 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key system locations to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Ga. Operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, these facilities afford substantial capacity for,
and are utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
NS Rail has underway a project to review, and modify as necessary, computer and other systems for Year-2000 compliance. As of December 1997, most of NS Rail's mainframe computer programs have been reviewed. This mainframe project is expected to be completed by the end of 1998. Failure to achieve Year-2000 compliance -- by NS Rail, other railroads, its suppliers, and its customers -- could negatively affect NS Rail's ability to conduct business for an extended period. Management believes that NS Rail's project will be completed on time and that the chance of failure is remote.
OTHER - NS Rail has extensive facilities for support of railroad operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
ENCUMBRANCES - Certain railroad equipment is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $598 million as of Dec. 31, 1997, and $594 million at Dec. 31, 1996. In addition, a portion of NS' properties is subject to liens securing, as of Dec. 31, 1997, and 1996, approximately $1 million and $51 million of mortgage debt, respectively.
Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services. For 1998, NS Rail has budgeted approximately $900 million of capital spending, of which $149 million are initial outlays for facilities and equipment related to the Conrail transaction. Capital spending is expected to be affected significantly by Conrail-related expenditures, which are anticipated to add approximately $500 million (net of predicted savings) over the next three years.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS Rail goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS Rail's capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position.
See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" on page 37 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," beginning on page 25 and in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 64.
EMPLOYEES - NS Rail employed an average of 23,323 employees in 1997, compared with an average of 23,361 in 1996 (including Norfolk Southern Corporation's employees whose primary duties relate to rail operations). The approximate average cost per employee during 1997 was $47,828 in wages and $18,418 in employee benefits. Approximately 81 percent of these employees are represented by various labor organizations.
As of the end of 1997, NS Rail had negotiated labor agreements with all of its unions. The accords with the 13 union organizations, which include compensation settlements in line with other major industries, will not be due for change until after January 1, 2000.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental, safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS Rail is subject to regulation by the STB, which succeeded the ICC on January 1, 1996. The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, has continued under the STB and additional rail business could be exempted from regulation in the future. Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments, which no longer require regulatory approval, effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. Over 80 percent of NS Rail's freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts.
Efforts will be made in 1998 to re-subject the rail industry to unwarranted federal economic regulation. The Staggers Rail Act of 1980, which substantially reduced such regulation, encouraged and enabled rail carriers to innovate and to compete for business, thereby contributing to the economic health of the nation and to the revitalization of the industry. Accordingly, NS Rail and other rail carriers vigorously will oppose these counterproductive efforts to re- impose or to authorize re-imposing such economic regulation.
COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling, and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations,
especially for higher valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products. Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in- process, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize problems at successive production stages.
NS Rail's primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate throughout much of the same territory, and implementation of the Conrail transaction should extend the area in which they compete. Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. NS Rail also competes with motor carriers, water carriers and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage.
Certain cooperative strategies between railroads and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets.
Item 3.