Item 2. Properties. - ------ ----------
GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway) was incorporated in 1894 under the name Southern Railway Company (Southern) in the Commonwealth of Virginia and, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively NS Rail), is primarily engaged in the transportation of freight by rail.
On June 1, l982, Southern and Norfolk and Western Railway Company (N&W) became subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern Corporation (NS), a transportation holding company. Effective Dec. 31, 1990, NS transferred all the common stock of N&W to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company. Effective Sept. 1, 1998, N&W was merged with and into Norfolk Southern Railway. All the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway (16,668,997 shares) is owned directly by NS. NS common stock is publicly held and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
There remain issued and outstanding as of Jan. 31, 2001, 1,197,027 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's $2.60 Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (Series A Stock), of which 1,096,907 shares were held by other than subsidiaries. The Series A Stock is entitled to one vote per share, is nonconvertible and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. As of Jan. 31, 2001, NS held a total of 176,705 shares of Series A Stock; consequently, as of the same date, NS held 94.8 percent of the voting stock of Norfolk Southern Railway.
OPERATION OF A PORTION OF THE CONRAIL RAIL ASSETS - On June 1, 1999, Norfolk Southern Railway and CSX Corporation (CSX), through its railroad subsidiary, began operating separate portions of Conrail's rail routes and assets. Substantially all such assets are owned by two wholly owned subsidiaries of Consolidated Rail Corporation (CRC); one of those subsidiaries, Pennsylvania Lines LLC (PRR), has entered into various operating and leasing arrangements, more particularly described in Note 2 on Page 47, with Norfolk Southern Railway. Certain rail assets (Shared Assets Areas) still are owned by CRC, which operates them for joint and exclusive use by Norfolk Southern Railway and the rail subsidiary of CSX.
Operation of the PRR routes and assets increased the size of the system over which Norfolk Southern Railway provides service by nearly 50% and afforded access to the New York metropolitan area, to much of the Northeast and to most of the major East Coast ports north of Norfolk, Va. Also, the leasing arrangements with PRR augmented Norfolk Southern Railway's locomotive, freight car and intermodal fleet.
OPERATIONS - As of Dec. 31, 2000, NS Rail operated approximately 21,800 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia, and in the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, about 12,000 miles are owned with the balance operated under lease or trackage rights; most of this total is main line track. In addition, NS Rail operates almost 17,000 miles of passing, industrial, yard and side tracks. In addition to the lines leased from Conrail previously discussed, NS Rail has major leased lines between Cincinnati, Ohio, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, and operates over trackage owned by North Carolina Railway Company (NCRR).
The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, and is subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years, at terms to be agreed upon.
Operations over the approximately 330 miles of tracks of NCRR, previously under a 100-year lease which expired on Dec. 31, 1994, are now under a trackage rights agreement. The term of the agreement is 15 years with NS Rail having the right to renew for two additional 15-year periods. The new arrangement resolved all outstanding litigation between NS Rail and NCRR and settled a number of contested real property issues. The agreement also includes very broad dispute resolution provisions.
NS Rail's lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast, East and Midwest, and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. These lines also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS Rail include: Norfolk, Virginia; Morehead City, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina; Savannah and Brunswick, Georgia; Jacksonville, Florida; Baltimore, Maryland; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania/Camden, New Jersey; Wilmington, Delaware; and the Ports of New York/New Jersey. Gulf Coast ports served include Mobile, Alabama, and New Orleans, Louisiana.
NS Rail's lines reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast, East and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta, Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah, Jacksonville, Cleveland, Newark, Pittsburgh, Philadelphia and Baltimore are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition, a haulage arrangement with Florida East Coast Railway Company allows NS Rail to provide single-line service to and from south Florida, including the port cities of Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Lauderdale. The system's lines also reach many individual industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky, southern and northern West Virginia and western Pennsylvania) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky, to Norfolk and Sandusky, Ohio; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Maryland, to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham); and the New Jersey area to Chicago (via Allentown and Pittsburgh).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Kansas City, Memphis, Meridian, New Orleans, Sidney/Salem and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
Note: Effective in 2000, NS Rail adopted the consensus reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) concerning Issue No. 99- 19, "Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent." The consensus presents indicators to consider in establishing the accounting for revenue. As a result of the application of the consensus, NS Rail has reclassified to railway operating expenses certain charges that previously have been reported net with railway operating revenues. This change in reporting has no effect on income from railway operations. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
COAL TRAFFIC - Coal, coke and iron ore -- most of which is bituminous coal --is NS Rail's largest commodity group as measured by revenues. NS Rail originated 156 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 2000 and handled a total of 175 million tons. Originated tonnage and total tons handled increased due to a full year of operations in the Northern Region. Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore accounted for about 24 percent of NS Rail's total railway operating revenues in 2000.
The following table shows total coal, coke and iron ore tonnage originated on line, received from connections and handled for the past five years:
Of the 175 million tons handled, approximately 20 million tons moved for export, principally through NS Rail's pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Virginia; 25 million tons moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 119 million tons of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 11 million tons moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users.
NS Rail moved 9 million tons of originated coal, coke and iron ore to various docks on the Ohio River, and 9 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS Rail was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River.
Total coal handled through all system ports in 2000 was 40 million tons. Of this total, 19 million tons (including coastwise traffic) moved through Lamberts Point, and 4 million tons moved through the Baltimore terminal.
The quantities of NS Rail export coal handled through Lamberts Point for the past five years were as follows:
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
MERCHANDISE TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists of intermodal and general merchandise, which consists of five major commodity groupings: automotive; chemicals; paper, clay and forest products; metals and construction; and agriculture, consumer products and government. Total merchandise revenues in 2000 were $4.6 billion, a 19 percent increase, compared with 1999. Merchandise carloads and intermodal units handled in 2000 were 5.16 million, compared with 4.44 million handled in 1999, an increase of 16 percent. The increases in revenues and carloads reflect a full year of operations in the Northern Region.
In 2000, 164 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 68 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS Rail, originated online. The balance of merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers, usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS Rail-received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis and Louisville.
Revenues in all six market groups comprising merchandise traffic increased in 2000, due to a full year of operations in the Northern Region.
See the discussion of general merchandise rail traffic by commodity group and intermodal rail traffic in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
FREIGHT RATES - In 2000, NS Rail continued its reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as the predominant pricing mechanism. Thus, a major portion of NS Rail's freight business is not currently economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices.
In 2000, NS Rail was found by the STB not to be "revenue adequate" based on results for the year 1999. A railroad is "revenue adequate" under the applicable law when its return on net investment exceeds the rail industry's composite cost of capital. PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS Rail's lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Greensboro and Selma, North Carolina. Commuter trains are operated on the NS Rail line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia. NS Rail also leases the Chicago to Manhattan, Illinois, line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois. Since June 1, 1999, Norfolk Southern Railway Company has operated former Conrail lines on which Amtrak conducts regularly scheduled passenger operations between Chicago, Illinois, and Detroit, Michigan, and between Chicago and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.
Also since June 1, 1999, through its operation of PRR's routes, Norfolk Southern Railway has been providing freight service over former Conrail lines with significant ongoing Amtrak and commuter passenger operations, and is conducting freight operations over some trackage owned by Amtrak or by New Jersey Transit, the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, Metro-North Commuter Railway Company and Maryland DOT. Finally, passenger operations are conducted either by Amtrak or by the commuter agencies over trackage owned by Pennsylvania Lines LLC, or by Conrail in the Shared Assets Areas.
RAILWAY PROPERTY:
* Includes equipment leased to outside parties and equipment subject to equipment trusts, conditional sale agreements and capitalized leases.
** Includes 982 locomotives, 18,404 freight cars and 3,830 units of other equipment leased from PRR.
The average age of the freight car fleet at Dec. 31, 2000, was 25.3 years. During 2000, 1,569 freight cars were retired. As of Dec. 31, 2000, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 16.1 years. During 2000, 20 locomotives, the average age of which was 24.5 years, were retired. Since 1988, about 29,000 coal cars have been rebodied. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than may be inferred from the high percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
Ongoing freight car and locomotive maintenance programs are intended to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability. In past years, the freight car bad order ratio reflected the storage of certain types of cars which were not in high demand. The ratio had declined more recently as a result of a disposition program, which will be accelerated in 2001, for underutilized, unserviceable and overage revenue cars. The ratio rose in 2000 as a result of decreased maintenance activity. The locomotive bad order ratio rose in 1997, particularly in the early months of the year, as older units required additional servicing and some new units were out-of-service related to warranty work. By year-end 1997, the locomotive bad order ratio had returned to a level nearer that of prior years. The increase in the locomotive bad order ratio in 1999 was primarily due to the maintenance requirements of units being rented to meet short-term needs and to weather- related failures. The ratio remained high in 2000 as maintenance activities were curtailed in response to a slowing economy.
TRACKAGE - All NS Rail trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 96 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) ranges from 100 to 140 pounds per yard. Of the approximately 31,900 miles of track maintained as of Dec. 31, 2000, about 22,100 were laid with welded rail.
* Excludes trackage rights.
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS Rail microwave system, consisting of 8,374 radio path miles, 443 active stations and 4 passive repeater stations, provides communications between most operating locations. The microwave system is used primarily for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 21,800 road miles operated by NS Rail, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 8,420 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 1,490 miles are controlled by data radio from 135 microwave site locations and 460 miles are cab-signal only) and 3,070 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key system locations to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Georgia. Operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, these facilities afford substantial capacity for, and are utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
OTHER - The railroads have extensive facilities for support of operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
ENCUMBRANCES - Certain railroad equipment is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $816 million as of Dec. 31, 2000, and $930 million as of Dec. 31, 1999.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - Capital expenditures for road, equipment and other property for the past five years were as follows (including capitalized leases):
Capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services. For 2001, NS Rail has budgeted approximately $740 million of capital spending. See the discussion following "Cash used for investing activities," on Page 31 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS Rail goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS Rail's capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position. See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" on Page 33 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," and in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on Page 62.
EMPLOYEES - NS Rail employed an average of 33,344 employees in 2000, compared with an average of 30,897 in 1999 (including NS' employees who provide management services to NS Rail). The increase reflects the substantial number of former Conrail employees who became NS Rail employees on June 1, 1999. The approximate average cost per employee during 2000 was $51,000 in wages and $21,000 in employee benefits.
Substantially all of NS Rail's non-management employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with 15 different labor unions. See the discussion of "Labor Agreements" on Page 35 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis."
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental, safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS Rail is subject to regulation by the STB, which succeeded the ICC on Jan. 1, 1996. The STB has jurisdiction over some rates, routes, conditions of service and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The STB also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of railroads, begun over a decade ago by the ICC under the Staggers Rail Act of 1980, has continued under the STB, and additional rail business could be exempted from regulation in the future. Significant exemptions are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. About 80 percent of NS Rail's freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under transportation contracts. Efforts may be made in 2001 to re-subject the rail industry to unwarranted federal economic regulation. The Staggers Rail Act of 1980, which substantially reduced such regulation, encouraged and enabled rail carriers to innovate and to compete for business, thereby contributing to the economic health of the nation and to the revitalization of the industry. Accordingly, NS Rail and other rail carriers vigorously will oppose these counterproductive efforts to reimpose or to authorize reimposing such economic regulation.
COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially for higher-valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products. Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in-process, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize problems at successive production stages.
NS Rail's primary rail competitor is the CSX system; both operate throughout much of the same territory. Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. NS Rail also competes with motor carriers, water carriers and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage.
Certain cooperative strategies between railroads and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets.
Item 3.