Item 2. Properties. ------ ----------
GENERAL - Norfolk Southern Railway Company (Norfolk Southern Railway) was incorporated in 1894 under the name Southern Railway Company (Southern) in the Commonwealth of Virginia and, together with its consolidated subsidiaries (collectively, NS Rail), is primarily engaged in the transportation of freight by rail.
On June 1, l982, Southern and Norfolk and Western Railway Company (NW) became subsidiaries of Norfolk Southern Corporation (NS), a transportation holding company. Effective December 31, 1990, NS transferred all the common stock of NW to Southern, and Southern's name was changed to Norfolk Southern Railway Company. Accordingly, all the common stock of NW, which is its only voting security, is owned by Norfolk Southern Railway, and all the common stock of Norfolk Southern Railway (16,668,997 shares) is owned directly by NS. NS common stock is publicly held and listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
There remain issued and outstanding as of February 28, 1995, 1,197,027 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's $2.60 Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (Series A Stock), of which 1,096,907 shares (including 74 shares not entitled to vote) were held by other than subsidiaries. The Series A Stock is entitled to one vote per share, is nonconvertible, and is traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
STOCK PURCHASE PROGRAM - On June 2, 1989, NS announced that it intended to purchase up to 250,000 shares of Norfolk Southern Railway's Series A Stock during the subsequent two-year period. In May 1991, NS extended the previously announced stock purchase program through 1993. In March 1994, NS announced that it would continue purchasing up to 250,000 shares of the Series A Stock through 1996. As of February 28, 1995, NS had purchased 104,727 shares of preferred stock at a total cost of approximately $3.71 million. Consequently, as of February 28, 1995, NS held 94.4 percent of the voting stock of Norfolk Southern Railway.
OPERATIONS - As of December 3l, l994, NS Rail operated 14,652 miles of road in the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia, and the Province of Ontario, Canada. Of this total, 12,780 miles are owned, 677 miles are leased and 1,195 miles are operated under trackage rights; also, of this total, 11,991 miles are main line and 2,661 miles are branch line. In addition, NS Rail operates approximately 10,907 miles of passing, industrial, yard and side tracks.
NS Rail has major leased lines in North Carolina and between Cincinnati, Oh., and Chattanooga, Tn. The North Carolina leases, covering approximately 300 miles, expired by their terms at the end of 1994. However, NS Rail expects these leases to be renewed or extended and has reached tentative understandings for such renewal or extension. The tentative arrangements call for payment of an annual rental of $8 million in 1995, with inflation adjustments in succeeding years. Pending the approval of a form of lease extension agreement by the parties, NS Rail continues to operate over these lines under the terms of the expired leases. If these leases ultimately are not renewed or extended, NS Rail could be required to continue using the lines subject to conditions prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) or might find it necessary to operate over an alternate route or routes. It is not expected that the resolution of this matter (whether resulting in renewal or extension of the leases, continued use of the leased lines under prescribed conditions or operation over one or more alternate routes) will have a material effect on NS Rail's consolidated financial position.
The Cincinnati-Chattanooga lease, covering about 335 miles, expires in 2026, subject to an option to extend the lease for an additional 25 years at terms to be agreed upon.
NS Rail's lines carry raw materials, intermediate products and finished goods primarily in the Southeast and Midwest and to and from the rest of the United States and parts of Canada. These lines also transport overseas freight through several Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. Atlantic ports served by NS Rail include: Norfolk, Va.; Morehead City, N.C.; Charleston, S.C.; Savannah and Brunswick, Ga.; and Jacksonville, Fl. Gulf Coast ports served include: Mobile, Al., and New Orleans, La.
NS Rail's lines reach most of the larger industrial and trading centers of the Southeast and Midwest, with the exception of those in central and southern Florida. Atlanta, Birmingham, New Orleans, Memphis, St. Louis, Kansas City (Missouri), Chicago, Detroit, Cincinnati, Buffalo, Norfolk, Charleston, Savannah and Jacksonville are among the leading centers originating and terminating freight traffic on the system. In addition to serving other established centers, the system's lines reach many industries, mines (in western Virginia, eastern Kentucky and southern West Virginia) and businesses located in smaller communities in its service area. The traffic corridors carrying the heaviest volumes of freight include those from the Appalachian coal fields of Virginia, West Virginia and Kentucky to Norfolk and Sandusky, Oh.; Buffalo to Chicago and Kansas City; Chicago to Jacksonville (via Cincinnati, Chattanooga and Atlanta); and Washington, D.C./Hagerstown, Md., to New Orleans (via Atlanta and Birmingham).
Buffalo, Chicago, Hagerstown, Jacksonville, Kansas City, Memphis, New Orleans and St. Louis are major gateways for interterritorial system traffic.
NS Rail and other railroads have entered into service interruption agreements, effective December 30, 1994, providing indemnities to parties affected by a strike over specified industry issues. If NS Rail were so affected, it could receive daily
indemnities from non-affected parties; if parties other than NS Rail were affected, NS Rail could be required to pay indemnities to those parties. If NS Rail were required to pay the maximum amount of indemnities required of it under these agreements--an event considered unlikely at this time--such liability should not exceed approximately $85 million.
COAL TRAFFIC - Ranked by tons handled, coal, coke and iron ore--most of which is bituminous coal--is NS Rail's principal commodity group. NS Rail originated 114.7 million tons of coal, coke and iron ore in 1994 and handled a total of 125.9 million tons. Originated tonnage increased 2.3 percent from 112.1 million tons in 1993, and total tons handled increased 6.7 percent from 118.0 million tons in 1993. Revenues from coal, coke and iron ore, which accounted for 32 percent of NS Rail's total railway operating revenues and 36 percent of total revenue ton miles in 1994, were $1.26 billion, an increase of 4 percent from $1.21 billion in 1993.
Of the 112.0 million tons of coal originating on NS Rail in 1994, the approximate breakdown is as follows: 41.2 million tons from West Virginia, 36.5 million tons from Virginia, 23.6 million tons from Kentucky, 5.7 million tons from Alabama, 3.0 million tons from Illinois, 1.5 million tons from Tennessee, and 0.5 million tons from Indiana. Of this NS Rail-origin coal, approximately 25.0 million tons moved for export, principally through NS Rail's pier facilities at Norfolk (Lamberts Point), Virginia; 18.3 million tons moved to domestic and Canadian steel industries; 59.8 million tons of steam coal moved to electric utilities; and 8.9 million tons moved to other industrial and miscellaneous users. NS Rail moved 10.4 million tons of originated coal to various docks on the Ohio River for further movement by barge and 5.2 million tons to various Lake Erie ports. Other than coal for export, virtually all coal handled by NS Rail was terminated in states situated east of the Mississippi River.
Total NS Rail coal tonnage handled through all system ports in 1994 was 43.6 million. Of this total, 64 percent moved through the pier facilities at Lamberts Point. In 1994, total tonnage handled at Lamberts Point, including coastwise traffic, was 27.8 million tons, a 0.7 percent increase from the 27.6 million tons handled in 1993.
See the discussion of coal traffic, by type of coal, in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 25.
MERCHANDISE RAIL TRAFFIC - The merchandise traffic group consists of Intermodal and five major commodity groupings (Chemicals; Paper/Forest; Automotive; Agriculture; and Metals/Construction). Total NS Rail merchandise revenues increased in 1994 to $2.54 billion, a 6 percent increase over 1993. Merchandise carloads handled in 1994 were 3.03 million, compared with 2.82 million handled in 1993, an increase of 8 percent.
In 1994, 106.4 million tons of merchandise freight, or approximately 68 percent of total merchandise tonnage handled by NS Rail, originated on line. The balance of NS Rail's merchandise traffic was received from connecting carriers (mostly railroads, with some intermodal, water and highway as well), usually at interterritorial gateways. The principal interchange points for NS Rail-received traffic included Chicago, Memphis, New Orleans, Cincinnati, Kansas City, Detroit, Hagerstown, St. Louis/East St. Louis, and Louisville.
Revenues in all six market groups comprising merchandise traffic improved over 1993, with four of the six increasing by 8% or more. The biggest gains were in Intermodal, up $53.7 million; Chemicals, up $39.3 million; Agriculture, up $27.8 million; and Metals/Construction, up $25.3 million.
See the discussion of merchandise rail traffic by commodity group in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 25.
FREIGHT RATES - In 1994 NS Rail continued its reliance on private contracts and exempt price quotes as its predominant pricing mechanisms. Thus, a major portion of NS Rail's freight business is not economically regulated by the government. In general, market forces have been substituted for government regulation and now are the primary determinant of rail service prices. Proposals pending in Congress in early 1995 would further reduce rate regulation of railroads.
In 1994, the ICC found NS Rail "revenue inadequate" based on results for the year 1993. A railroad is "revenue inadequate" under the Interstate Commerce Act when its return on net investment does not exceed the rail industry's composite cost of capital. The absence of "revenue adequacy" lets a railroad use a provision in the Interstate Commerce Act allowing increases in regulated rates by a specific percentage. However, with the decreasing importance of regulated tariff traffic to NS Rail, the ICC's "revenue adequacy" findings have less impact than formerly.
PASSENGER OPERATIONS - Regularly scheduled passenger operations on NS Rail's lines consist of Amtrak trains operating between Alexandria and New Orleans, and between Charlotte and Selma, N.C. Former Amtrak operations between East St. Louis and Centralia, Il., were discontinued by Amtrak on November 3, 1993. Commuter trains continued operations on the NS Rail line between Manassas and Alexandria under contract with two transportation commissions of the Commonwealth of Virginia, providing for reimbursement of related expenses incurred by NS Rail. During 1993, a lease of the Chicago to Manhattan, Il., line to the Commuter Rail Division of the Regional Transportation Authority of Northeast Illinois replaced an agreement under which NS Rail had provided commuter rail service for the Authority.
The average age of the freight car fleet at December 31, 1994, was 21.9 years. During 1994, NS Rail retired 3,333 freight cars. As of December 31, 1994, the average age of the locomotive fleet was 15.8 years. During 1994, NS Rail retired 24 locomotives, the average age of which was 23.6 years. Since 1988, NS Rail has rebodied more than 17,200 coal cars. As a result, the remaining serviceability of the freight car fleet is greater than is indicated by the percentage of freight cars built in earlier years.
NS Rail continues freight car and locomotive maintenance programs to ensure the highest standards of safety, reliability, customer satisfaction and equipment marketability. In recent years, as illustrated in the table below, the bad order ratio has risen or remained fairly stable primarily due to the storage of certain types of cars which are not in high demand. Funds were not spent to repair certain types of cars for which present and future customers' needs could be adequately met without such repair programs. Also, NS Rail's own standards of what constitutes a "serviceable" car have risen, and NS continues a rational disposition program for underutilized, unserviceable and overage cars.
TRACKAGE - All NS Rail trackage is standard gauge, and the rail in approximately 96 percent of the main line trackage (including first, second, third and branch main tracks, all excluding trackage rights) is heavyweight rail ranging from 90 to 155 pounds per yard. Of the 23,172 miles of track maintained by NS Rail as of December 31, 1994, 15,712 miles were laid with welded rail.
MICROWAVE SYSTEM - The NS Rail microwave system, consisting of 6,584 radio path miles, 374 active stations and 7 passive repeater stations, provides communications for Norfolk, Buffalo, Detroit, Fort Wayne, Chicago, Kansas City, St. Louis, Washington, D.C., Atlanta, New Orleans, Jacksonville, Memphis, Cincinnati and most operating locations between these cities. The microwave system provides approximately 2,168,990 individual voice channel miles of circuits. The microwave system is used principally for voice communications, VHF radio control circuits, data and facsimile transmissions, traffic control operations, AEI data transmissions and relay of intelligence from defective equipment detectors. Extension of microwave communications to low density or operations support facilities is accomplished via microwave interface to buried fiber-optic or copper cables.
TRAFFIC CONTROL - Of a total of 13,457 road miles operated by NS Rail, excluding trackage rights over foreign lines, 5,274 road miles are governed by centralized traffic control systems (of which 81 miles are controlled by data radio from seven microwave site locations) and 2,734 road miles are equipped for automatic block system operation.
COMPUTERS - Data processing facilities connect the yards, terminals, transportation offices, rolling stock repair points, sales offices and other key locations on NS Rail to the central computer complex in Atlanta, Ga. System operating and traffic data are compiled and stored to provide customers with information on their shipments throughout the system. Data processing facilities are capable of providing current information on the location of every train and each car on line, as well as related waybill and other train and car movement data. Additionally, this facility affords substantial capacity for, and is utilized to assist management in the performance of, a wide variety of functions and services, including payroll, car and revenue accounting, billing, material management activities and controls, and special studies.
OTHER - NS Rail has extensive facilities for support of railroad operations, including freight depots, car construction shops, maintenance shops, office buildings, and signals and communications facilities.
ENCUMBRANCES - Certain rail rolling stock is subject to the prior lien of equipment financing obligations amounting to approximately $497.2 million as of December 31, 1994, and $521.8 million as of December 31, 1993. In addition, a significant portion of NS Rail's properties are subject to liens securing as of December 31, 1994, and 1993, approximately $33.9 million and $74.8 million of mortgage debt, respectively.
NS Rail's capital spending and maintenance programs are and have been designed to assure the Company's ability to provide safe, efficient and reliable transportation services. For 1995, NS Rail is planning $686 million of capital spending, and anticipates new equipment financing of approximately $110 million. Looking further ahead, capital spending is expected to remain in the $600 to $700 million range for the next few years. A substantial portion of future capital spending is expected to be funded through internally generated cash, although debt financing will continue as the primary funding source for equipment acquisitions.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - Compliance with federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment is a principal NS Rail goal. To date, such compliance has not affected materially NS Rail's capital additions, earnings, liquidity or competitive position.
See the discussion of "Environmental Matters" in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis," on page 34, and in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 59.
EMPLOYEES - NS Rail employed an average of 24,710 employees in 1994, compared with an average of 25,531 in 1993 (including Norfolk Southern Corporation's employees whose primary duties relate to rail operations). The approximate average cost per rail-related employee during 1994 was $41,528 in wages and $18,344 in employee benefits. Approximately 82 percent of these employees are represented by various labor organizations.
GOVERNMENT REGULATION - In addition to environmental, safety, securities and other regulations generally applicable to all businesses, NS Rail is subject to regulation by the ICC, various state regulatory agencies and the Department of Transportation. The ICC has jurisdiction over many rates, routes, conditions of service, and the extension or abandonment of rail lines. The ICC also has jurisdiction over the consolidation, merger or acquisition of control of and by rail common carriers. The Department of Transportation regulates certain track and mechanical equipment standards.
The relaxation of economic regulation of the railroads by the ICC, started over a decade ago under the Staggers Rail Act of l980, has continued. The ICC has recently authorized the partial deregulation of the charges railroads pay for the use of rail cars. NS Rail is expected to benefit from the deprescription of car hire because it owns older cars of types which are in high demand. These cars will likely bring higher rentals under deprescription than under regulated rates.
Certain revenue transactions and classes of traffic already have been exempted from ICC regulation. Those most significant for NS Rail are TOFC/COFC (i.e., "piggyback") business, rail boxcar traffic, lumber, manufactured steel, automobiles and certain bulk commodities such as sand, gravel, pulpwood and wood chips for paper manufacturing. Transportation contracts on regulated shipments, after approval by the ICC, effectively remove those shipments from regulation as well. Over 80 percent of NS Rail's freight revenues come from either exempt traffic or traffic moving under ICC approved transportation contracts.
In early 1995, Congress had under consideration proposals for additional reductions in economic regulation of railroads, including proposals for "sunsetting" the ICC and transferring its remaining functions to another agency.
COMPETITION - There is continuing strong competition among rail, water and highway carriers. Price is usually only one factor of importance as shippers and receivers choose a transport mode and specific hauling company. Inventory carrying costs, service reliability, ease of handling, and the desire to avoid loss and damage during transit are increasingly important considerations, especially for higher valued finished goods, machinery and consumer products. Even for raw materials, semi-finished goods and work-in- process, users are increasingly sensitive to transport arrangements which minimize problems at successive production stages.
NS Rail's primary competitor is the CSX system, which operates throughout much of the same territory served by NS Rail. Other railroads also operate in parts of the territory. NS Rail also competes with motor carriers and water carriers, and with shippers who have the additional option of handling their own goods in private carriage. Increasingly, cooperative strategies between railroads and between railroads and motor carriers enable carriers to compete more effectively in specific markets. A subsidiary of NS, which is not part of NS Rail, entered into such a strategy with a Conrail subsidiary forming a partnership in 1993 which offered intermodal service using RoadRailer(Registered Trademark) equipment. NS Rail provides some of the rail line-haul for this partnership.
Item 3.