Item 2. Properties
The principal offices of Security Capital are located at 125 Lincoln Avenue in Santa Fe, New Mexico and its telephone number is (505) 982-9292. Security Capital's affiliates also have administrative offices in El Paso, Texas, which are leased from ProLogis at an annual rental of $676,000. Security Capital and its affiliates operate out of other offices in the United States (Atlanta, Chicago, Denver, Houston and New York), Europe (Amsterdam, Brussels, London and Luxembourg) and Asia (Tokyo). Security Capital believes its properties are adequately insured. Although Archstone, Belmont, Homestead, ProLogis and Strategic Hotel own an extensive number of properties, no single property is materially important to Security Capital and its affiliates.
Properties of the Direct Investees
The following discussion sets forth, with respect to the operating companies in which Security Capital has a direct ownership position, a description of the properties owned or operated by such companies, the markets in which such companies operate and the general competitive conditions faced by such companies. No single property is materially important to any of the direct investees (except in the case of Strategic Hotel and Belmont), and there are no mortgages, liens or other encumbrances against any properties which are material to any such operating company (except in the case of Homestead). Whereas none of the direct investees has at present any material plans for the renovation or improvement of properties in operation except as discussed below, each direct investee budgets for regular maintenance, repair and upgrades to its properties. As set forth below, each such company, except Strategic Hotel, is actively engaged in the development of additional properties. Because of capital constraints, Homestead may be limited to developing only these properties currently under construction. In the opinion of management of Security Capital, the properties of the direct investees are adequately insured.
Archstone
Archstone is a leading real estate operating company focused on the development, acquisition, redevelopment, operation and ownership of apartment communities in markets and sub-markets with high barriers to entry across the United States. As of December 31, 1998, Archstone had 305 apartment communities, consisting of 88,631 units, including 19,290 units in its development pipeline under construction and in planning, representing a total expected investment of $6.933 billion. In July 1998, Atlantic, an apartment REIT which operated primarily in the mid-Atlantic and southeastern United States, was merged with and into Archstone. The transaction added more than 33,000 units to Archstone's portfolio and development pipeline. In addition, the acquisition added several new markets in the eastern United States to Archstone's portfolio. As of December 31, 1998, Archstone's apartment communities are located in markets that include 30 of the nation's 50 largest metropolitan markets.
Archstone places considerable emphasis on the creation of value through the development of carefully planned apartment communities. Currently, Archstone's development pipeline totals $1.75 billion, including $1.05 billion of communities under construction and $699.7 million of communities in planning.
Archstone had 20 apartment communities, representing $405.3 million in total expected investment undergoing significant redevelopment activities as of December 31, 1998. Overall redevelopment expenditures (including revenue- enhancing and expense-reducing expenditures) aggregated $57.2 million during the year ended December 31, 1998. This category includes: (1) redevelopment initiatives intended to reposition the community in the marketplace, including upgrades to interiors, exteriors, landscaping and amenities; (2) revenue- enhancing expenditures expected to produce incremental community revenues, such as garages/carports, storage facilities and gating; and (3) expense- reducing expenditures, including such items as submetering systems and xeriscaping that reduce future operating costs.
There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies and other owners of real estate that compete with Archstone in seeking land for development, communities for acquisition and disposition and residents for communities. All of Archstone's apartment communities are located in developed areas that include other apartment communities. The number of competitive apartment communities in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on Archstone's ability to lease units and on the rents charged. In addition, other forms of single family and apartment communities provide housing alternatives to residents and potential residents of Archstone's apartment communities.
Archstone has five percent or more of its apartment portfolio located in each of the following individual target markets, based on total expected investment: Atlanta, Georgia; Raleigh, North Carolina; Southeast Florida; Washington, D.C.; Phoenix, Arizona; San Francisco Bay Area, California; Seattle, Washington and Southern California. As a result, Archstone is subject to increased exposure (positive or negative) to the economic and other competitive factors specific to these markets. The majority of Archstone's development efforts emphasize the development of apartment communities targeted at moderate income households. Archstone's management believes that moderate income households represent one of the largest and most underserved segments of the renter population. These households exhibit a number of very important characteristics that make them particularly desirable. For example, moderate income households typically consist of longer-term residents, which results in lower resident turnover and, therefore, lower overall costs to refurbish units for re-leasing. In addition, there is relatively limited competition for this segment of the market because most developers target the upper income segment of the market. Archstone believes that focusing on the moderate income segment will allow it to achieve more consistent rental increases and higher occupancies over the long-term and, thereby, realize sustainable cash flow growth and appreciation in value.
Belmont
Belmont is a fully integrated developer, owner and operator of senior assisted living communities operating under the name Belmont Village. The first Belmont Village community opened in November 1998 in Houston and features 155 residences, including 24 designated for people with dementia. In addition there are three Belmont Village communities under development and eight in planning in six major metropolitan U.S. markets.
Belmont's management believes that the senior assisted living industry affords opportunity for growth. Demand for senior assisted living residential services is expected to outstrip supply as the size of the population age 65 and over will nearly double over the next 30 years. This is especially true in large metropolitan areas, which lack adequate supply of these facilities and present greater development challenges. In addition, the market for senior assisted living is highly fragmented, with less than 15% of existing supply in the hands of organized national competitors. The majority of supply exists in small or tertiary markets and is provided by regional or single-asset companies.
Belmont's strategy is to create communities in large metropolitan areas with exceptional senior demographics where much of this demand is concentrated. Belmont will focus on infill sites in these markets, which offer high barriers to entry and few built-to-purpose competitors.
There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies, medical facility companies, health care providers and others that compete with Belmont in seeking land for development of senior assisted living communities, the operation of senior assisted living communities, and seeking residents for senior assisted living communities. Belmont's properties are located in developed areas that include other senior assisted living communities. The number of competitive senior assisted living facilities in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on occupancy and revenues.
Homestead
Homestead is a leading owner and operator of moderately priced, corporate extended stay lodging properties in the United States. Homestead is focused on the corporate business traveler, and has developed a proprietary operating system to ensure its customers a consistent, high-quality, uniform lodging experience. The company's site selection program targets infill locations proximate to major business centers and convenient to services desired by its customers. Homestead seeks to build a national brand recognized and valued by its major corporate customers by concentrating on delivering high-quality service and product in strategic locations. Homestead's 120 completed properties, 16 properties under construction and 18 properties in planning and owned, with a combined total expected investment of $1.59 billion, are located in 38 metropolitan areas in 25 states and the District of Columbia. No individual market represents more than 10% of Homestead's lodging properties. As of December 31, 1998, Homestead's mortgage notes payable and lines of credit were collateralized by substantially all of Homestead's operating properties.
Each Homestead property is, or will be, located in a developed area that includes competing properties, including traditional hotels and corporate apartments. The number of competitors in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on occupancy, average weekly rates and revenues for a Homestead Village Property in that market. Competition within the extended- stay lodging market has increased substantially. In several markets where Homestead has properties, there is intense competition for the extended stay customer, which has already affected occupancy and revenue for these properties. In addition, since the lodging industry has historically been characterized by cyclical trends, there can be no assurance that the current state of supply/demand fundamentals will continue into the future. Competition within the lodging industry is based generally on convenience of location, price, range of services and guest amenities offered and quality of customer service. Homestead considers the reasonableness of its room rates, the location of its properties and the services and the guest amenities provided by it to be among the most important competitive factors in the business. A number of other lodging chains and developers have developed or are developing competitive extended-stay properties. In particular, some of these entities have targeted the moderately priced segment of the extended-stay market in which Homestead competes. Homestead competes for guests and for new development sites with certain of these established entities which may have greater financial resources than Homestead and better relationships with lenders and real estate sellers. These entities may be able to accept more risk than Homestead can prudently manage. Further, there can be no assurance that new or existing competitors will not significantly reduce their rates or offer greater convenience, services or amenities or significantly expand or improve properties in markets in which Homestead competes, thereby materially adversely affecting Homestead's business and results of operations.
ProLogis
ProLogis is an owner and lessor of industrial distribution facilities with nearly 1,250 facilities being leased to industrial users throughout North America and Europe, making it the largest publicly held, U.S.-based company to do so. ProLogis is an international company focused exclusively on meeting the distribution space needs of international, national, regional and local industrial real estate users through the ProLogis Operating System(TM). As of December 31, 1998, ProLogis, including its unconsolidated subsidiaries, had 134.7 million square feet of industrial distribution facilities, which included 126.1 million square feet of operating facilities. Additionally, ProLogis had 8.6 million square feet under development at a total expected investment of $391.9 million in 90 North American and European markets. Also, as of December 31, 1998, ProLogis, including its unconsolidated subsidiaries, owned or controlled 4,678 acres of land for the future development of approximately
81.6 million square feet of distribution facilities. As of December 31, 1998, 93.0% of ProLogis' operating facilities and facilities under development (based on cost) were located in the United States, 4.7% were located in Europe and 2.3% were located in Mexico.
Upon completion of the merger with Meridian in late March 1999, the combined company will own nearly 1,500 distribution facilities, based on the real estate assets held by ProLogis and Meridian as of December 31, 1998. The combined real estate assets, including assets held by unconsolidated subsidiaries and joint ventures, will consist of approximately 157.5 million square feet of operating distribution facilities. Also, the combined company will have 10.8 million square feet of distribution facilities under development at a total expected investment of $473.1 million in 94 North American and European markets. Additionally, the combined company will own or control approximately 5,100 acres of land for the future development of approximately 87.9 million square feet of distribution facilities.
There are numerous other industrial properties located in close proximity to each of ProLogis' properties. The amount of rentable space available in any target market city could have a material effect on ProLogis' ability to rent space and on the rents charged. In addition, in many of ProLogis' submarkets, institutional investors and owners and developers of industrial facilities compete for the acquisition, development and leasing of industrial space. Many of these persons have substantial resources and experience.
ProLogis operates nationally and internationally and has no markets with a concentration of investment in excess of 10% of its total portfolio investment. Competition for acquisition of existing distribution facilities from institutional capital sources and other REITs has increased substantially in the past several years.
Strategic Hotel
Strategic Hotel has focused on becoming the preeminent owner of luxury and upscale full-service hotel properties that are subject to long-term management contracts with leading global hotel management companies. Strategic Hotel uses research driven capital deployment to identify investment opportunities in markets with high barriers to entry, develop strategic relationships with preferred operators of superior brands and enhance operating results through active, disciplined asset management. As of December 31, 1998, Strategic Hotel's portfolio was comprised of 25 full-service hotels in 20 markets in the United States, Europe, and Mexico representing total expected investments of $1.8 billion, $172.3 million, and $64.0 million, respectively.
Each Strategic Hotel property is located in a developed area that includes competing properties. The number and type of competitors in a particular area could have a material adverse impact on occupancy and revenues. In addition, since the lodging industry has historically been characterized by cyclical trends, there can be no assurance that the current state of supply/demand fundamentals will continue in the future. Competition within the lodging industry is based generally on convenience of location, price, range of services, guest amenities offered and quality of service. A number of chains have targeted the upscale or luxury end of the lodging industry. Strategic Hotel owns a portfolio of "branded" hotels that competes with certain of these established entities, each of which may have greater resources than Strategic Hotel. These entities may be able to accept more risk than Strategic Hotel can prudently manage. Further, there can be no assurance that new or existing competitors will not significantly change the rates, offer greater convenience, service or amenities or significantly expand or improve their properties in markets in which Strategic Hotel competes, thereby materially adversely affecting Strategic Hotel's business and results of operations.
Properties of SC-European Realty
The following discussion sets forth, with respect to the real estate operating companies in which SC-European Realty has acquired a material long- term strategic ownership position, a description of the properties owned or operated by such companies, the markets in which each of such companies operates and the general competitive conditions faced by such companies. No single property is materially important to any of the strategic investees of SC-European Realty and there are no mortgages, liens or other encumbrances against any
properties which are material to any such strategic investee of SC-European Realty except City & West End. Whereas none of the strategic investees of SC- European Realty has at present any material plans for the renovation or improvement of properties in operation except as noted below, each strategic investee of SC-European Realty budgets for regular maintenance, repair and upgrades to its properties. To the extent set forth below, certain investees are actively engaged in the development of additional properties that would be material to the investee. In the opinion of management of SC-European Realty, the properties of the strategic investees of SC-European Realty are adequately insured in the aggregate.
Access
Access is in the process of being created from the combination of four private self-storage companies by integrating those companies' operations, management teams and systems to create a strong operating platform designed to achieve rapid growth throughout Europe. As of December 31, 1998, the combined group owned 52 self-storage facilities in Europe: 32 in the UK, 17 in France and three in Germany. These facilities represent a combined total expected investment of $145.1 million, of which 71% is in the UK, 22% is in France, and 7% is in Germany. In addition, on December 31, 1998, SC-European Realty acquired Millers Storage, the leading self-storage company in Australia where it owns or operates 20 facilities mainly in the Sydney metropolitan area.
The global self-storage sector, with a strategic focus predominantly in Europe, is considered a highly attractive sector in which to deploy capital for a number of key reasons. The self-storage sector is in the early stage of growth outside of the United States. In contrast to the United States where there are over 25,000 facilities, management estimates that there are approximately 200 facilities in Europe. The ratio of storage space square feet per capita in the United States is 3.8 square feet and is estimated to be only a fraction of this amount in Europe. The growth potential of this market as consumer awareness builds is very significant. The next largest competitor in Europe has 14 facilities. Consistent with the United States experience, there is an opportunity at this early state to be first to market, secure attractive infill locations, and build the leading brand. Access is focused on protected urban redevelopment. Given the scarcity and extremely high cost of land in major European cities, infill sites will generate the highest growth in cash flow over the long-term.
Akeler and Bernheim-Comofi
SC-European Realty's suburban office interests are operated by two companies, Akeler and Bernheim-Comofi, which primarily focus on the UK and continental Europe, respectively. Both companies are focused on customer driven development strategies. As of December 31, 1998, Akeler owned and operated or had under contract to acquire or develop projects totaling over 1.1 million leaseable square feet representing a total expected investment of approximately $432 million. Bernheim-Comofi owns, operates and develops suburban office and office parks primarily in Brussels. As of December 31, 1998, Bernheim-Comofi owned and operated or had under contract to acquire or develop projects totaling over 1.5 million leasable square feet representing a total expected investment of approximately $226 million.
Security Capital identified the pan-European suburban office sector as an attractive segment for two reasons: first, there is a strong demand for office space from multinational companies as they position themselves to take advantage of a strong economic environment in Europe and the restructuring taking place as evidenced by EMU; and second, there is a shortage of modern, flexible office space across Europe. Given the low levels of construction over the past three to five years in major European cities, the majority of office stock does not adequately meet the needs of large, multinational corporations.
City & West End
City & West End, a redeveloper, owner and operator of office properties focused exclusively on London's West End, operated five properties in London totaling 438,000 square feet with a total expected investment of $237.4 million as of December 31, 1998. Additionally, City & West End had 142,000 square feet of properties in London under development as of December 31, 1998, representing a total expected investment of $180.6 million.
The West End of London is considered one of the most attractive central business district markets in Europe for long-term growth. The West End is the most development-constrained London sub-market. Supply is added to this market in small increments and is typically represented by redevelopment of the building shell so as to preserve historic facades. For example, the two prime submarkets in the West End, Mayfair and St. James', have approximately 15.3 million square feet of office space. Space deliveries in 1999 and 2000 in these markets are expected to total only 434,000 and 398,000 square feet, respectively.
Interparking S.A.
Interparking S.A. is the leading owner, developer and operator of public off-street parking facilities in continental Europe. As of December 31, 1998, Interparking S.A. operated 223 facilities with 110,500 parking spaces in 70 cities across six countries.
The parking sector across Europe demonstrates attractive demand and supply fundamentals, driving strong revenue growth. Car ownership and in-commuting city center traffic is growing across Europe and this increases demand for parking facilities. Significant barriers to entry exist as government and local authorities are increasingly looking to reduce reliance on private car usage by discouraging on-street parking, restricting the amount of private off-street parking spaces (in commercial and residential buildings) and by limiting new public off-street parking development. The parking industry is becoming more sophisticated not only in terms of facility design and specifications, customer and product segmentation, but also through the increasing role of technology. Interparking S.A. believes that there is a significant opportunity to upgrade technology and information systems to improve property revenues and operating margins.
The public parking sector in Europe is still a very fragmented industry, where facilities are still often owned and/or operated by local authorities or small private companies. Local government budgetary procedures are expected to result in widespread privatization of public off-street parking management, creating significant growth opportunities over the next five years. The required investment levels to benefit from these opportunities as well as to upgrade technology are prohibitive for small operations. Interparking S.A. believes that the industry is at the early stages of consolidation.
London and Henley
London and Henley, a leading UK apartment owner, operator and redeveloper, focuses exclusively on London submarkets. As of December 31, 1998, the portfolio of apartment properties included 61 operating properties with a total expected investment of $95.0 million and 18 properties under development with a total expected investment of $140.6 million.
The UK is one of the only unregulated apartment markets in Europe. The existing rental housing stock in the UK as a percentage of total housing stock is 10.2% as contrasted with 30% in the US. There are no large owners, public or private, of apartment properties in the UK, and few opportunities to acquire blocks of apartment properties. Projections for the UK housing market show extremely robust growth. Government estimates show an average annual demand through 2016 of 253,000 dwelling units per annum. This strong level of forecast demand, almost double the average annual supply over the past six years of 139,000 homes, should translate into strong demand for apartments. There is limited ability to acquire or develop new properties in central London due to development restrictions and a shortage of undeveloped land. These barriers create the need for highly specialized redevelopment skills to create product.
Properties of SC-U.S.Realty Investees
The following discussion sets forth, with respect to the real estate operating companies in which SC-U.S.Realty has acquired a material long-term strategic ownership position, a description of the properties owned or operated by such companies, the markets in which each of such companies operates and the general competitive conditions faced by such companies. No single property is materially important to any of the strategic investees of SC-U.S.Realty (except in the case of City Center Retail, CWS Communities and Urban Growth) and there are no mortgages, liens or other encumbrances against any properties which are material to any such strategic investee of SC- U.S.Realty. Whereas none of the strategic investees of SC-U.S.Realty has at present any material plans for the renovation or improvement of properties in operation except as noted below,
each strategic investee of SC-U.S.Realty budgets for regular maintenance, repair and upgrades to its properties. To the extent set forth below, certain investees are actively engaged in the development of additional properties that would be material to the investee. In the opinion of management of SC- U.S.Realty, the properties of the strategic investees of SC-U.S.Realty are adequately insured.
CarrAmerica
CarrAmerica owns, develops and operates office properties in 16 markets throughout the United States. The company is committed to becoming America's leading office workplace company by meeting the rapidly changing needs of its customers with superior service, a large portfolio of quality office properties, extraordinary development capabilities and land positions and, through its affiliates, the availability of executive suites. Currently, CarrAmerica and its affiliates own a controlling interest in a portfolio of approximately 292 operating office properties and another 48 office buildings under construction in key growth markets.
CarrAmerica believes that, as a result of its national operating system, market research capabilities, access to capital, and experience as an owner, operator and developer of real estate, it will continue to be able to identify and consummate acquisition opportunities and to operate its portfolio more effectively than competitors without such capabilities. CarrAmerica, however, competes in many of its target markets with other real estate operators, some of whom may have been active in such markets for a longer period than CarrAmerica.
City Center Retail
City Center Retail was created to provide quality customer service and premier urban-infill retail locations to top U.S. and international retailers. City Center Retail is focused on the acquisition, development, operation and ownership of well-designed and well-managed urban-infill retail properties across the United States.
As of December 1998, City Center Retail had made investments in 27 projects for a total expected investment of $458.1 million containing approximately 2.2 million square feet.
Security Capital's strategic research in the retail sector uncovered several key trends in the United States which Security Capital believes result in an attractive opportunity in the urban infill retail property niche to create the first national company focused on developing, acquiring, operating and owning real estate in downtown markets. Security Capital's research indicated that a number of high-growth national and regional retailers in the United States are focusing their growth away from suburban shopping malls in favor of high-density urban infill locations. These locations have a competitive advantage in the form of physical barriers to entry provided by the surrounding buildings. They are also well-positioned to attract significant foot traffic from surrounding workplaces and neighborhoods, as well as that of conference attendees and tourists, and typically offer large, open floor space that many retailers find attractive for promotional, retail and entertainment centers. Security Capital believes that there is an increasing recognition by top retailers of the strong and sustainable viability of urban retail space in leading U.S. cities. In addition, Security Capital's research indicates that there is a move to revitalize urban and downtown centers, with a focus on retailing, and an evolution in urban design that combines retail, food and entertainment uses (along with other uses such as office or hotel) in a multi-story urban redevelopment. Historically, top retailers have generally been required to deal with different real estate entities in each market in which they have a presence, and a company with a national presence should be able to more effectively meet customers' needs.
CWS Communities
CWS Communities is one of the largest private owners, operators and developers of manufactured housing communities in the United States. As of December 31, 1998, CWS Communities owned and operated, managed, or had under development, or had under contract to acquire or develop, a total of 53 communities with over 17,962 spaces in nine states and Canada for a total estimated cost of approximately $403.5 million.
Based on Security Capital's strategic research, CWS Communities believes that underlying demand, supply and growth fundamentals for manufactured housing communities in the United States are strong. Demand is being driven by first-time home buyers, as well as an aging population, attracted to the relative affordability,
improved product quality and enhanced amenities of new manufactured housing communities compared to traditional site-built homes. CWS Communities believes that supply is constrained due to the difficulty of identifying attractive sites and receiving zoning approval by municipalities for new development.
There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies and other owners of real estate that compete with CWS Communities in seeking land for development, communities for acquisition, and residents for communities. All of CWS Communities' properties are located in developed areas that include other communities. The number of competitive manufactured housing communities in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on CWS Communities' ability to lease spaces and on the rents charged. In addition, other forms of single family and apartment communities provide housing alternatives to residents and potential residents of CWS Communities' manufactured housing communities.
Regency
Regency is dedicated to being the leading operator, owner, and developer of grocery-anchored neighborhood infill retail centers. As of December 31, 1998, the company owned 129 retail properties operating or under development totaling 14.7 million square feet of retail space in 16 states. Upon completion of the merger with Pacific Retail on February 28, 1999, Regency owned 201 retail properties totaling 23.2 million square feet of retail space in 20 states.
There are numerous shopping center developers, real estate companies and other owners of real estate that operate in the same markets as Regency and compete with Regency in seeking retail tenants to occupy vacant space, for the acquisition of shopping centers, and for the development of new shopping centers. However, ownership of neighborhood infill centers historically has been highly fragmented with local ownership, as institutional capital has generally avoided the relatively small size of the centers and their management-intensive nature. In addition, such centers targeted by Regency are generally located within densely populated neighborhoods where little or no land is available for development of competing centers.
Storage USA
Storage USA is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust which is engaged in the management, acquisition, development, construction and franchising of self-storage facilities. Of its current total of 485 self-storage facilities aggregating 31.9 million square feet located in 31 states and the District of Columbia, Storage USA currently owns 421 facilities and manages 64 facilities, including franchises.
Storage USA has recently taken advantage of its in-house development capability to selectively develop new facilities in areas where suitable acquisitions may not be available. The development activities consist primarily of additions to existing facilities and construction of new facilities.
Competition exists in all of the market areas in which the facilities are located. Storage USA principally faces competitors who seek to attract tenants primarily on the basis of lower prices. However, Storage USA usually does not seek to be the lowest-priced competitor. Rather, based on the quality of its facilities and its customer service-oriented managers and amenities, Storage USA's strategy is to lead particular markets in terms of prices.
The pool of self-storage users has increased in recent years due to greater consumer awareness, cost reduction programs by businesses, increased mobility in the general population and an increasing mix of products and services offered by self-storage facilities. Although circumstances vary among markets, Storage USA believes that current demand for self-storage facilities is strong when compared to the available supply of self-storage space. At the same time, Storage USA believes that few operators of self-storage facilities are currently constructing additional facilities or have access to the capital and the development and construction expertise necessary to do so. Therefore, Storage USA believes that the supply of self-storage facilities will remain relatively limited for some time, and that the industry generally will continue to experience strong occupancy and increasing rental rates. Storage USA believes that its access to capital markets as a public company, the systems and methods it has developed and the skilled personnel it has gathered and trained for acquiring and
managing self-storage facilities with potential for increased occupancy and rental rates, and its expertise in facility development and construction, place Storage USA in a position to capitalize on these market conditions for the benefit of its shareholders.
Storage USA is the second largest self-storage manager, with 31.9 million square feet in 485 facilities as of December 31, 1998. In addition to Storage USA, there are four other publicly traded self-storage REITs and numerous private and regional operators. These other entities may generally be able to accept more risk than Storage USA can prudently manage, including risks with respect to the geographic proximity of its investments and the payment of higher facility acquisition prices. This competition may generally reduce the number of suitable acquisition opportunities offered to Storage USA and increase the price required to be able to consummate the acquisition of particular facilities. Further, Storage USA believes that competition from entities organized for purposes substantially similar to Storage USA's objectives could increase. Nevertheless, Storage USA believes that the operations, development and financial experience of its executive officers and directors and its customer-oriented approach to management of self-storage facilities should enable Storage USA to compete effectively.
Urban Growth
Urban Growth is focused on acquiring, developing and owning strategically located land that is income-producing parking assets and urban land (initially used for parking or car parks) situated in key urban infill locations in selected target markets throughout the United States. As of December 31, 1998, Urban Growth owned 22 properties in 10 cities throughout the United States with a total of 16,429 parking spaces representing a total expected investment of $246.4 million.
Based on Security Capital's strategic research, Urban Growth believes that a company focused on acquiring, developing and owning strategically located income-producing land in key urban infill and certain suburban locations in selected target markets throughout the United States can generate attractive returns. Security Capital's research also indicates that the underlying demand, supply and growth fundamentals for parking lots and car parks in urban infill and certain suburban locations in selected target markets in the United States is strong. Growth is a function of increased demand driven by new developments at such locations and the absence of adequate supply.
Item 3.