ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The principal offices of Security Capital are located at 125 Lincoln Avenue in Santa Fe, New Mexico and its telephone number is (505) 982-9292. Security Capital's affiliates also have administrative offices in El Paso, Texas. The Santa Fe office is leased from an unaffiliated third party and the El Paso offices are leased from SCI at an annual rental of $676,004. Security Capital and its affiliates operate out of other offices in the United States (Atlanta, Chicago, Denver and New York) and Europe (Brussels, London and Luxembourg). Security Capital believes its properties are adequately insured. Although SCI, PTR, ATLANTIC, Homestead and SHC own an extensive number of properties, no single property is materially important to Security Capital and its affiliates.
PROPERTIES OF THE DIRECT INVESTEES
The following discussion sets forth, with respect to the operating companies in which Security Capital has a direct ownership, the markets in which each of such companies operates as well as a description of the general competitive conditions faced by such companies. No single property is materially important to any of the direct investees, and there are no mortgages, liens or other encumbrances against any properties which are material to any such operating company. Whereas none of the direct investeees has at present any material plans for the renovation or improvement of properties in operation, each direct investee budgets for regular maintenance, repair and upgrades to its properties. As set forth below, each such company, except SHC, is actively engaged in the development of additional properties. In the opinion of management of Security Capital, the properties of the direct investees are adequately covered by insurance.
PTR
PTR's multifamily communities are located in 23 metropolitan areas in 10 states. The table below summarizes the geographic distribution of PTR's multifamily communities which are operating or under construction, based on total expected investment as of December 31, 1997 in each of its primary market regions.
- -------- (1) For operating communities, represents cost, including budgeted renovations. For communities under construction and in planning, represents cost plus additional budgeted development expenditures, which include the cost of land, fees, permits, payments to contractors, materials, architectural and engineering fees and interest and property taxes to be capitalized during the construction period.
PTR selectively develops multifamily communities where land costs, demographics and market trends indicate a high likelihood of achieving sustainable operating results and consistent cash flow growth. This disciplined approach to development has produced multifamily property developments with desired characteristics including state-of-the-art product, locations with limited competing product and attractive returns. Through December 31, 1997, completed development communities, communities under construction and communities in planning and owned represented 44.87% of PTR's multifamily portfolio, based on total expected investment. At December 31, 1997, PTR's multifamily development portfolio consisted of the following:
- -------- (1) Represents cost through December 31, 1997 plus additional budgeted development expenditures at December 31, 1997, which include the cost of land, fees, permits, payments to contractors, materials, architectural and engineering fees and interest and property taxes to be capitalized during the construction period. (2) Does not include land in planning and under control for the development of 6,090 units with a total budgeted development cost of $537.7 million.
There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies and other owners of real estate that compete with PTR in seeking land for development, communities for acquisition and disposition and residents for communities. All of PTR's multifamily communities are located in developed areas that include other multifamily communities. The number of competitive multifamily communities in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on PTR's ability to lease units and on the rents charged. In addition, other forms of single family and multifamily residential communities provide housing alternatives to residents and potential residents of PTR's multifamily communities.
The Southern California and Northern California markets have attractive economic fundamentals which have produced revenue growth for PTR. Rent growth in California markets has resulted from strong demand caused by job growth, high occupancy rates and limited new supply of multifamily units in most markets (Source: California REALFACTS). Permit levels for multifamily units continued to increase in certain California markets which may lead to a greater level of supply in certain of those markets in 1998. Occupancy rates and rent growth for Phoenix remained stable to firmer in 1997. Permit levels for Phoenix continue to rise indicating greater additions to inventory in 1998. The Seattle market has attractive economic fundamentals that have produced revenue growth for PTR. Strong demand caused by job growth coupled with limited new supply has provided rent growth for PTR. Permit levels for Seattle continue to rise indicating greater additions to inventory in 1998.
ATLANTIC
ATLANTIC's multifamily communities are located in 17 metropolitan areas in 9 states and the District of Columbia. The table below demonstrates the geographic distribution of ATLANTIC's portfolio (which includes operating communities and owned communities under construction and in planning) as of December 31, 1997.
- -------- (1) Percentages are based on total expected investment which, for operating communities, represents cost, including budgeted capital expenditures. For communities under construction and in planning, total expected investment represents total budgeted development cost, which includes the cost of land, fees, permits, payments to contractors, architectural and engineering fees and interest and property taxes to be capitalized during the construction period. The term "in planning" means that construction is not anticipated to commence within 12 months. Does not include land held for future development (construction is not anticipated to commence within 12 months), which is less than 1% of assets, based on cost.
ATLANTIC has selectively developed multifamily communities where land costs and demographic and market trends indicate a high likelihood of achieving attractive, sustainable operating results. Through December 31, 1997, ATLANTIC's completed developed communities and its owned communities under construction and in planning together comprised 41.8% of its multifamily portfolio, based on total expected investment. At December 31, 1997, the development portion of ATLANTIC's multifamily portfolio consisted of the following:
- -------- (1) For completed communities, represents cost plus budgeted capital expenditures. For communities under construction and in planning, represents total budgeted development cost, which includes the cost of land, fees, permits, payments to contractors, architectural and engineering fees and interest and property taxes to be capitalized during the construction period. (2) The term "in planning" means that construction is anticipated to commence within 12 months. (3) The term "under control" means that ATLANTIC has an exclusive right (through a contingent contract or letter of intent) during a contractually agreed-upon time period to acquire land for future development of multifamily communities, but ATLANTIC does not currently own the land. (4) Does not include land held for future development (construction is not anticipated to commence in the next 12 months), which is less than 1% of assets, based on cost.
There are numerous commercial developers, real estate companies and other owners of real estate that compete with ATLANTIC in seeking land for development, communities for acquisition and disposition and residents for communities. All of ATLANTIC's multifamily communities are located in developed areas that include other multifamily communities. The number of competitive multifamily communities in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on ATLANTIC's ability to lease units and on the rents charged. In addition, other forms of single family and multifamily residential communities provide housing alternatives to residents and potential residents of ATLANTIC's multifamily communities.
Few competitors in ATLANTIC's primary target market currently focus on the moderate income resident. Consequently, ATLANTIC believes that moderate income residents are a significantly underserved market with limited competition.
The Atlanta market has experienced strong job growth in recent years but has also attracted strong competition from institutional capital sources and other developers and operators for the acquisition or development of multifamily communities. Moderating but steady job growth overcame new units in the area pushing occupancies up slightly in 1997 (Source: Dale Henson Associates). Multifamily permits for Atlanta increased slightly in 1997 indicating higher levels of inventory in 1998. Strong institutional investor interests in the Ft. Lauderdale/West Palm Beach market offset strong job growth in 1997 (Source: Reinhold Wolff Economic Research). Multifamily permit activity for Ft. Lauderdale/West Palm Beach increased again in 1997 illustrating the increased institutional interest. Raleigh's high levels of absorption have helped keep Raleigh's occupancy rates above 90%. The number of units under construction in the Raleigh area exceeds levels of absorption; therefore, Raleigh is forecast to experience an oversupply of units over the next 12 months (Source: Carolina's Real Data). The number of construction permits for Raleigh granted in 1997 for multifamily units exceeded the number of such permits granted in 1996 by 54%.
Homestead
Homestead's completed properties, properties under construction and properties in planning and owned are located in 38 metropolitan areas in 24 states and the District of Columbia. The table below describes the geographical distribution of Homestead's property investments (excluding land held for future development and land held for sale) at December 31, 1997:
- -------- (1) Represents cost for completed properties. Represents budgeted development cost for properties under construction and properties in planning and owned. Properties in planning and owned represent projects where land has been acquired and pre-construction planning activities are in progress. Budgeted development cost includes the cost of land, fees, permits, payments to contractors, architectural and engineering fees and interest, property taxes and development overhead costs to be capitalized during the development period. Land held for future development or for sale, which is less than 2% of property assets based on historical costs as of December 31, 1997, are not included above.
Homestead's strategy for future growth includes developing new properties and efficiently delivering them to the market place. Homestead expects to have a total of 120 properties operational by the end of 1998. Homestead plans to continue an active development program thereafter. Homestead's plans call for the average property to have approximately 136 extended-stay rooms and to take approximately eight to ten months to construct.
Homestead's development portfolio consisted of the following at December 31, 1997 (in thousands):
- -------- (1) Total expected investment represents budgeted development cost for properties under construction and properties in planning and owned. Properties in planning and owned represent projects where land has been acquired or is under long-term lease and pre-construction planning activities are in progress. Budgeted development cost includes the cost of land, fees, permits, payments to contractors, architectural and engineering fees and interest, property taxes and development overhead costs to be capitalized during the development period. Land held for future development or for sale which is less than 2% of property assets based on historical cost as of December 31, 1997, is not included above.
Each Homestead Village property is, or will be, located in a developed area that includes competing properties. The number of competitors in a particular area could have a material adverse effect on occupancy, average weekly rates and revenues. Competition within the extended-stay lodging market has increased substantially. In addition, since the lodging industry has historically been characterized by cyclical trends, there can be no assurance that the current state of supply/demand fundamentals will continue into the future. Competition within the lodging industry is based generally on convenience of location, price, range of services and guest amenities offered and quality of customer service. Homestead considers the reasonableness of its room rates, the location of its properties and the services and the guest amenities provided by it to be among the most important competitive factors in the business. A number of other lodging chains and developers are developing extended-stay properties. In particular, some of these entities have targeted the moderately priced segment of the extended-stay market in which Homestead competes. Homestead competes for guests and for new development sites with certain of these established entities which may have greater financial resources than Homestead and better relationships with lenders and real estate sellers. These entities may be able to accept more risk than Homestead can prudently manage. Further, there can be no assurance that new or existing competitors will not significantly reduce their rates or offer greater convenience, services or amenities or significantly expand or improve properties in markets in which Homestead competes, thereby materially adversely affecting Homestead's business and results of operations.
SCI
SCI's properties are located in 37 national markets and 7 international markets. The table below demonstrates the geographic distribution of SCI's portfolio (which includes operating properties and properties under development at December 31, 1997) in each of its primary market regions.
- -------- (1) For operating properties, represents cost through December 31, 1997. For properties under construction and in planning, represents cost through December 31, 1997 plus additional budgeted development expenditures as of December 31, 1997, which include the cost of land, fees, permits, payments to contractors, architectural and engineering fees and interest and property taxes to be capitalized during the construction period. Does not include land held for future development, which is less than 5% of assets, based on cost.
SCI selectively develops distribution properties where land costs, demographics and market trends indicate a high likelihood of achieving sustainable operating results and consistent cash flow growth. This disciplined approach to development has produced distribution property developments with desired characteristics including state-of-the-art product and attractive returns. Through December 31, 1997, completed developments, properties under construction and properties in planning and owned represented 38% of SCI's distribution property portfolio, based on total expected investment. At December 31, 1997, SCI's distribution property portfolio consisted of the following:
- -------- (1) Represents cost through December 31, 1997 plus additional budgeted development expenditures at December 31, 1997, which include the cost of land, fees, permits, payments to contractors, materials, architectural and engineering fees and interest and property taxes to be capitalized during the construction period. Does not include land held for future development, which is less than 5% of assets, based on cost. (2) Includes three buildings currently in rehabilitation with a total expected investment of $41,140.
There are numerous other industrial properties located in close proximity to each of SCI's properties. The amount of rentable space available in any target market city could have a material effect on SCI's ability to rent space and on the rents charged. In addition, in many of SCI's submarkets, institutional investors and owners and developers of industrial facilities compete for the acquisition, development and leasing of industrial space. Many of these persons have substantial resources and experience.
SCI operates nationally and internationally and has no markets with a concentration of investment in excess of 10% of its total portfolio investment. In SCI's major markets, 1997 vacancy rates are below the average rates for the period from 1991 through 1997 (Source: CB Commercial/Torto Wheaton Research). Competition for acquisition of existing distribution facilities from institutional capital sources and other REITs has increased substantially in the past several years.
SHC
As of December 31, 1997, SHC's portfolio was comprised of 13 full-service hotels in 11 markets in the United States and Mexico City. The table below demonstrates the geographic distribution of SHC's portfolio as of December 31, 1997.
- -------- (1) Actual or estimated all-in cost as of 120 days past acquisition date.
The following table shows the all-in costs and historical costs of the 13 properties acquired in 1997.
- -------- (1) Actual or estimated all-in cost as of 120 days past acquisition date.
PROPERTIES OF SC-USREALTY INVESTEES
The following discussion sets forth, with respect to the real estate operating companies in which SC-USREALTY has acquired a material long-term strategic ownership position, the markets in which each of such companies operates as well as a description of the general competitive conditions faced by such companies. No single property is materially important to any of the strategic investees of SC-USREALTY and there are no mortgages, liens or other encumbrances against any properties which are material to any such strategic investee of SC-USREALTY. Whereas none of the strategic investees of SC- USREALTY has at present any material plans for the renovation or improvement of properties in operation, each strategic investee of SC-USREALTY budgets for regular maintenance, repair and upgrades to its properties. To the extent set forth below, certain investees are actively engaged in the development of additional properties that would be material to the investee. In the opinion of management of SC-USREALTY, the properties of the strategic investees of SC- USREALTY are adequately covered by insurance.
CarrAmerica
CarrAmerica's office properties are located in 15 target markets. The table below summarizes the geographic distribution of CarrAmerica's operating office properties, based on total invested capital, at December 31, 1997.
At December 31, 1997, CarrAmerica's development portfolio consisted of the following:
- -------- (1) Represents cost through December 31, 1997 plus additional budgeted development expenditures at December 31, 1997, which include the cost of land, fees, permits, payments to contractors, materials, architectural and engineering fees and interest and property taxes to be capitalized during the construction period. (2) No assurances can be given that any of the land held for development will be developed.
CarrAmerica believes that, as a result of its national operating system, market research capabilities, access to capital, and experience as an owner, operator and developer of real estate, it will continue to be able to identify and consummate acquisition opportunities and to operate its portfolio more effectively than competitors without such capabilities. CarrAmerica, however, competes in many of its target markets with other real estate operators, some of whom may have been active in such markets for a longer period than CarrAmerica. In CarrAmerica's major markets of Washington, D.C. and San Francisco, California, rental rates for office buildings have increased and vacancy rates have decreased over the last six years (Source: CB Commercial/Torto Wheaton Research).
Storage USA
Storage USA's properties are located in target markets in 30 states and the District of Columbia. The table below summarizes the geographic distribution of Storage USA's operating properties, based on total invested capital, at December 31, 1997.
Storage USA has recently taken advantage of its in-house development capability to selectively develop new facilities in areas where suitable acquisitions may not be available. The development activities consist primarily of additions to existing facilities and construction of new facilities. Since 1985, Storage USA and predecessor organizations have developed and constructed 26 facilities, 20 of which Storage USA owns.
At December 31, 1997, Storage USA's development portfolio consisted of the following:
- -------- (1) Represents cost through December 31, 1997 plus additional budgeted development expenditures at December 31, which include the cost of land, fees, permits, payments to contractors, materials, architectural and engineering fees and interest and property taxes to be capitalized during the construction period.
Competition exists in all of the market areas in which the facilities are located. Storage USA principally faces competitors who seek to attract tenants primarily on the basis of lower prices. However, Storage USA usually does not seek to be the lowest-priced competitor. Rather, based on the quality of its facilities and its customer service-oriented managers and amenities, Storage USA's strategy is to lead particular markets in terms of prices.
The pool of self-storage users has increased in recent years due to greater consumer awareness, cost reduction programs by businesses, increased mobility in the general population and an increasing mix of products and services offered by self-storage facilities. Although circumstances vary among markets, Storage USA believes that current demand for self-storage facilities is strong when compared to the available supply of self-storage space. At the same time, Storage USA believes that few operators of self-storage facilities are currently constructing additional facilities or have access to the capital and the development and construction expertise necessary to do so. Therefore, Storage USA believes that the supply of self-storage facilities will remain relatively limited for some time, and that the industry generally will continue to experience strong occupancy and increasing rental rates. Storage USA believes that its access to capital markets as a public company, the systems and methods it has developed and the skilled personnel it has gathered and trained for acquiring and managing self-storage facilities with potential for increased occupancy and rental rates, and its expertise in facility development and construction, place Storage USA in a position to capitalize on these market conditions for the benefit of its shareholders.
The three largest self-storage managers, based on industry data as to the number of facilities operated (whether or not the facilities are owned), are: (1) Public Storage Management, Inc. (67 million square feet); (2) Storage USA (19.8 million square feet); and (3) U-Haul International, Inc. (19.7 million square feet) (Source: Inside Self-Storage, August 1997 edition). Storage USA is the second largest self-storage manager, with 25.6 million square feet in 394 facilities as of December 31, 1997. These other entities may generally be able to accept more risk than Storage USA can prudently manage, including risks with respect to the geographic proximity of its investments and the payment of higher facility acquisition prices. This competition may generally reduce the number of suitable acquisition opportunities offered to Storage USA and increase the price required to be able to consummate the acquisition of particular facilities. Further, Storage USA believes that competition from entities organized for purposes substantially similar to Storage USA's objectives could increase. Nevertheless, Storage USA believes that the operations, development and financial experience of its executive officers and directors and its customer-oriented approach to management of self-storage facilities should enable Storage USA to compete effectively.
PACIFIC RETAIL
PACIFIC RETAIL properties are located in 12 primary target markets in the Pacific and Southwest regions. The table below demonstrates the geographic distribution of PACIFIC RETAIL's portfolio (which includes operating properties and a property under redevelopment at December 31, 1997).
- -------- (1) For operating properties and the one property under redevelopment, represents the total expected investment. At December 31, 1997, PACIFIC RETAIL had six new retail centers under development or in planning representing 1,023,319 square feet.
There are numerous shopping center developers, real estate companies and other owners of real estate that operate in the Pacific and Southwest regions that compete with PACIFIC RETAIL in seeking retail tenants to occupy vacant space, for the acquisition of shopping centers, and for the development of new shopping centers. However, ownership of neighborhood infill centers historically has been highly fragmented, with ownership local as institutional capital has generally avoided the relatively small size of the centers and their management-intensive nature. In addition, such centers targeted by PACIFIC RETAIL are generally located within densely populated neighborhoods where little or no land is available for development of competing centers.
REGENCY
REGENCY's properties are located in nine primary target markets in the Eastern region. The table below demonstrates the geographic distribution of REGENCY's portfolio at December 31, 1997.
- -------- (1) Includes nine retail centers under construction or redevelopment with a total expected investment of approximately $44 million.
There are numerous shopping center developers, real estate companies and other owners of real estate that operate in the Southeast that compete with REGENCY in seeking retail tenants to occupy vacant space, for the acquisition of shopping centers, and for the development of new shopping centers. However, ownership of neighborhood infill centers historically has been highly fragmented, with local ownership, as institutional capital has generally avoided the relatively small size of the centers and their management- intensive nature. In addition, such centers targeted by REGENCY are generally located within densely populated neighborhoods where little or no land is available for development of competing centers.
ITEM 3.