Item 2. Properties.
THE ROYALTY INTERESTS
The Royalty Interests held by the Trust generally entitle the Trust to receive 65 percent of Gross Proceeds. The Royalty Interests were conveyed to the Trust by means of a single instrument of conveyance. The Conveyance was recorded in the appropriate real property records in Alabama, so as to give notice of the Royalty Interests to creditors, and any transferees will take an interest in the Underlying Properties subject to the Royalty Interests. The Conveyance was intended to convey the Royalty Interests as real property interests under Alabama law.
The following description of the material provisions of the Conveyance and the Trust Agreement is subject to and qualified by the more detailed provisions of the Conveyance and the Trust Agreement included as exhibits to this Form 10-K.
The Underlying Properties
Black Warrior Basin. The Black Warrior Basin covers 6,000 square miles in west central Alabama and contains 7 Pennsylvania-age multi-seam coal groups in the Pottsville formation: the Black Creek, Mary Lee, Pratt, Cobb, Gwin, Utley and Brookwood coal groups. The Pottsville coal formation ranges from the surface to a depth of 4,100 feet.
Wells in the Black Warrior Basin produce natural gas from coal seam formations that have production characteristics materially different from conventional natural gas wells. The primary factor affecting recovery of gas reserves from coal seams in the Black Warrior Basin is the lowering of reservoir pressure through “dewatering” operations. In a typical coal seam gas well on the Underlying Properties, average daily natural gas production generally will increase as wells are “dewatered” until natural gas production reaches a “peak” at which time natural gas production will decline. The amount of time necessary to “dewater” a well and cause it to reach its peak production, and the ultimate level of a well’s peak production, are difficult to estimate. Since all of the 532 wells included in the Underlying Properties were producing by mid-1991, the Company believes that production from such wells is currently past its peak and will decline over the term of the Trust.
The Royalty Interests were conveyed by the Company to the Trust out of the Company Interests. The Existing Wells are operated by Dominion Black Warrior Basin, Inc. in accordance with the Operating Agreement. See “-Operation of Properties.” The Underlying Properties comprise 34,212 gross acres of land in an area approximately 5 miles wide and 23 miles long located on the Tuscaloosa to Bankhead Lake portion of the Black Warrior Basin. Initial production began in December 1988 and consisted of 8 wells. The Company acquired its interest in the Underlying Properties in December 1992. As of December 31, 2003, the Underlying Properties contained 532 wells that were producing gas, all of which were drilled prior to 1993.
Well Count and Acreage Summary. The following table shows as of December 31, 2003, the gross and net producing wells and acres for the Company Interests. The net wells and acres are determined by multiplying the gross wells or acres by the Company Interests Owner’s working interest in the wells or acres.
Royalty Interests, Company Interests and Retained Interests. On June 1, 1994, the effective date of the Conveyance, the Company had an average aggregate working interest in the Existing Wells of approximately 98 percent, and an average aggregate net revenue interest of approximately 80 percent in the Existing Wells. The Company has not sold or otherwise disposed of any of its interest in the Company Interests since June 1, 1994. The Royalty Interests are entitled to approximately 52 percent of the net revenue from natural gas produced and sold from the Underlying Properties, and the interests (the “Retained Interests”) of the Company in the Underlying Properties (after giving effect to the Royalty Interests) entitle the Company to receive approximately 28 percent of the net revenue from the natural gas produced and sold from
the Underlying Properties. As a working interest owner in the Underlying Properties, the Company is responsible for an average of approximately 98 percent of the operating costs of the Existing Wells.
The Royalty Interests do not burden (i) royalties and other obligations, expressed or implied, under oil or natural gas leases, (ii) the overriding royalties and other burdens created by the Company’s predecessors in title, or (iii) the working interests owned by other individual working interest owners.
Water Removal and Disposal. Water from the wells located on the Underlying Properties is pumped from the wellhead to one of 5 water disposal systems, each with 2 ponds, where the water is analyzed and chemically treated to remove impurities, if necessary, prior to discharge into the Black Warrior River. Water from the operations on the Underlying Properties is discharged into the Black Warrior River pursuant to a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit issued by ADEM that will expire in July 2004. A new permit has been requested for post-July 2004. The ADEM permit generally authorizes water disposal based upon the Black Warrior River’s minimum flow rate and maximum chloride level. The Company has advised the Trust that, since 1987, water disposal from the Underlying Properties has not been disrupted. Although the facilities of the Company have the capacity to store several days of water production, if water disposal into the Black Warrior River is disrupted, natural gas production from the wells on the Underlying Properties would be curtailed during the period of such disruption. See “Business-Regulation and Prices-Environmental Regulation.”
Curtailments. The Company has advised the Trust that, during 2003, production from the Underlying Properties was not curtailed for any reason other than for routine maintenance.
Federal Lands. Approximately one percent (360 acres) of the Underlying Properties are leases on land held by the federal government. Royalty payments due to the U.S. government for natural gas produced from federal lands included in the Underlying Properties must be calculated in conformance with a working interest owner’s interpretation of regulations issued by the Minerals Management Service (“MMS”). MMS regulations cover both valuation standards, which establish the basis for placing a value on production, and cost allowances, which define those post-production costs that are deductible by the lessee.
The Trust is subject to certain rules of the Bureau of Land Management under which the holding of interests in leases by persons other than citizens, nationals and legal resident aliens of the United States (“Eligible Citizens”) are limited. As a result, non-Eligible Citizens are prohibited from owning Units. If any Units are acquired by persons or entities not constituting Eligible Citizens, such Unitholders may be required to sell such Units pursuant to a procedure set forth in the Trust Agreement. See “Business-Description of the Trust-Possible Divestiture of Units.”
Additional Wells. Well spacing rules, which are in effect in Alabama, generally govern the space between wells drilled to the same productive formation and are promulgated in order to prevent waste and confiscation of property. Pursuant to such rules, the Existing Wells are located on 40- to 80-acre spacing units. Exceptions or changes to these rules may be granted by the applicable regulatory agency upon application of an interested party following notice to other interested parties if, in the agency’s opinion, good reasons exist therefor after consideration of evidence presented by the applicant and any opponents. The Company has informed the Trust that it is not aware of any plans to change spacing regulations with respect to the Underlying Properties in Alabama. No assurances can be made, however, that exceptions or changes will not be made in the future.
The Company and its affiliates or unrelated third parties may acquire interests in properties adjoining the Underlying Properties. It is possible that wells drilled on adjoining properties would drain reserves attributable to the Underlying Properties.
The Company has agreed for the term of the Trust not to consent to, cooperate with, assist in or conduct infill drilling (except as required by law) on any of the Underlying Properties in which the Company owned an interest as of June 1, 1994. Although the Company believes that it is unlikely that any additional wells will be drilled, if the Operating Agreement is terminated, the Company cannot prevent one of the other owners of an interest in the Underlying Properties from drilling additional wells on the Underlying Properties. Additional wells, if drilled, could recover a portion of the reserves otherwise producible from wells burdened by the Company Interests, thereby reducing the Gross Proceeds attributable to the Royalty Interests.
If additional wells are drilled, Section 29 tax credits will not be generated from production attributable to such additional wells unless the Section 29 tax credit is extended or reinstated and the drilling requirement is changed.
The Royalty Interests
Summary of Conveyance. The Conveyance has been filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. The following summary of the material terms of the Conveyance is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms thereof as set forth in such exhibit.
Expenses Borne by Royalty Interests. The Royalty Interests are non-operating, non-expense bearing interests, except for their share of property, production and related taxes, including severance taxes. Accordingly, owners of the Royalty Interests are not liable or responsible for costs or liabilities incurred by the working interest owners in connection with the production of Gas from the Underlying Properties.
Operating Standard. The Company Interests Owner is obligated to conduct and carry on, as would a reasonably prudent operator, or cause to be so conducted or carried on, the development, maintenance and operation of the Company Interests.
Infill Drilling. The Company Interests Owner has agreed not to consent to, cooperate with, assist in or conduct any infill drilling on the Underlying Properties, except as required by law.
Pratt Recompletions. To recover behind pipe reserves, the Company Interests Owner recompleted certain of the Existing Wells to the Pratt coal seam prior to March 31, 1997. To the extent that production from the recompleted wells qualifies for the Section 29 tax credit, such production is taken into account by the Trustee when computing the Tax Credit per Unit furnished annually to Unitholders.
Right to Take In-Kind. The owner of the Royalty Interests has no right to take production in-kind.
Pooling and Unitization. The Company Interests Owner has certain pooling and unitization rights.
Right to Assign Company Interests. The Company Interests Owner has the right to assign all or any part of the Company Interests, subject to the Royalty Interests and the terms and provisions of the Conveyance. If any such assignment is made of part, but not all, of such interests, then effective as of the date of such assignment, the assignee will be required to make a separate computation of Gross Proceeds attributable to the assigned interests.
Sale or Assignment of Royalty Interests. In certain situations, the Trust may sell or dispose of all or a part of the Royalty Interests, in which case the Trust would receive the proceeds therefrom and distribute such proceeds to the Unitholders, net of any amounts held as a reserve. See “Business-Description of the Trust-Transfer of Royalty Interests” and “Business-Description of the Trust-Duties and Limited Powers of the Trustee.”
Books and Records. The Company Interests Owner is required to maintain books and records sufficient to determine the amounts payable with respect to the Royalty Interests.
Computation and Payment. The Royalty Interests entitle the Trust to receive 65 percent of the Gross Proceeds. The Royalty Interests bear their proportionate share of property, production and related taxes (including severance taxes). The definitions, formulas and accounting procedures and other terms governing the computation of the Royalty Interests are set forth in the Conveyance.
The Company Interests Owner is required, pursuant to the Conveyance, to pay to the Trust amounts received by the Company Interests Owner from the sale of Subject Gas attributable to the Royalty Interests. Under the Conveyance, the amounts payable by the Company Interests Owner with respect to the Royalty Interests are computed with respect to each calendar quarter ending prior to termination of the Trust, and such amounts are paid to the Trust not later than the last business day before the 45th day following the end of each calendar quarter. The amounts paid to the Trust do not include interest on any amounts payable with respect to the Royalty Interests that are held by the Company Interests Owner prior to payment to the Trust. The Company Interests Owner is entitled to retain all amounts attributable to the Retained
Interests. The Company Interests Owner deducts from the payment to the Trust the Royalty Interests’ share of property, production and related taxes (including severance taxes) and pays the same on behalf of the Trust.
Reserve Estimate
Reserve Estimate. The following table summarizes net proved reserves estimated as of January 1, 2004, and certain related information for the Royalty Interests from the Reserve Estimate prepared by Ralph E. Davis & Associates. The natural gas reserves were estimated by Ralph E. Davis & Associates by applying volumetric and decline curve analyses. All of such reserves constitute proved developed gas reserves. The Reserve Estimate was prepared in accordance with criteria established by the Commission.
(a)
The estimates of reserves and future net revenues summarized in this table are based upon an unescalated price of $5.9168 through December 31, 2003, which was the price being received by the Company under the Gas Purchase Agreement as of January 1, 2004. After December 31, 2003, the price of $5.9168 per Mcf was utilized, which represented the market price for gas in their fields as of December 31, 2003. This price may not be the most representative price for estimating reserves or related future net revenues data. See “-Gas Purchase Agreement.”
(b)
As discussed in “Business-Federal Income Tax Considerations,” coal seam gas produced and sold after December 31, 2002, will no longer generate a Section 29 tax credit unless the Section 29 tax credit is extended or reinstated by Congress.
(c)
Estimated future net revenues are defined as the total revenues attributable to the Royalty Interests for gas production less the relevant share of production, property and related taxes (including severance taxes). Overhead costs have not been included, nor have the effects of depreciation, depletion and federal income tax. Estimated future net revenues and discounted estimated future net revenues are not intended and should not be interpreted as representing the fair market value for the estimated reserves.
The reserve data set forth herein, which was prepared by Ralph E. Davis & Associates in a manner customary in the industry, is an estimate only, and actual quantities, rates of production and sales prices for natural gas are likely to differ from the estimated amounts set forth herein, and such differences could be significant.
There are many uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of the geological and engineering evaluation of that data. Results of testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of such estimate. Further, reserve estimates for any given property may vary from engineer to engineer even though each engineer bases his estimate on common data and utilizes techniques and principles customary in the industry.
For properties with short production histories, reserve estimates in many instances are based upon volumetric calculations and upon analogy to similar types of production or producing fields. Relative to many conventional natural gas producing properties, coal seam gas producing properties in general, and the Underlying Properties in particular, have short production histories. In addition, there are no significant coal seam reservoirs that have been produced to depletion that can be used as analogies to the Underlying Properties.
The discounted estimated future net revenues shown herein were prepared using guidelines established by the Commission and may not be representative of the market value for the estimated reserves.
The reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests are expected to decline substantially during the term of the Trust, and a portion of each cash distribution made by the Trust will, therefore, be analogous to a return of capital. As a result, cash distributions will decrease materially over time. For example, based upon the production estimates set forth in the Reserve Estimate, annual production attributable to the Royalty Interests is estimated to decline from 4.9 Bcf in 2004 to 3.3 Bcf in 2007.
Miscellaneous. Ralph E. Davis & Associates has delivered to the Trust the Reserve Estimate, a summary of which is included as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. Information concerning historical changes in net proved developed reserves attributable to the Royalty Interests, and the calculation of the standardized measure of discounted future net revenues related thereto, is contained in Note 8 of the Notes to the Financial Statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 hereof. Dominion Resources has not filed reserve estimates covering the Royalty Interests with any other federal authority or agency.
Natural Gas Sales Prices and Production
The following table sets forth the actual net production volumes attributable to the Royalty Interests, weighted average property, production and related taxes and information regarding natural gas sales prices for the years ended December 31, 2003, December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001.
Gas Purchase Agreement
El Paso Merchant Energy - Gas, L.P. (“El Paso”), successor to Sonat Marketing Company (“Sonat Marketing”), was required under the Gas Purchase Agreement to purchase the Gas produced from the Underlying Properties until such agreement was terminated, effective January 31, 2004. Under the agreement, Sonat Marketing (as predecessor to El Paso under the Gas Purchase Agreement) was, in past years, obligated to purchase up to a specified monthly base quantity of Gas for a contract price equal to the Index Price plus a specified premium (between $.05 and $.07 per MMBtu) over the Index Price. Until December 31, 1998, the Contract Price paid was subject to a minimum price of $1.85 per MMBtu and a maximum price of $2.63 per MMBtu. Beginning effective January 1, 1999, the Contract Price paid was subject to a minimum price of $2.16 per MMBtu and a maximum price of $3.07 per MMBtu. Beginning effective January 1, 2000 through December 31, 2000, the price paid on Index Price Quantities to a minimum price of $2.20 and a maximum price of $2.82. Prior to April 1, 1996, Sonat Marketing was obligated to purchase Gas production in excess of the specified monthly base quantities at the Index Price. Effective April 1, 1996 through December 31, 1998, the price paid for such Gas production in excess of the specified monthly base quantities was the Index Price plus $.02. Effective January 1, 1999 through December 31, 2000, the price paid Gas production in excess of the specified monthly basis quantities was the Index Price plus $.02. The Index Price, which is determined on a monthly basis, was Southern Natural Gas Company’s posted index price for deliveries of gas in Louisiana.
Effective January 1, 2001 through December 31, 2001, the price payable by El Paso for each MMBtu of the base quantity specified for each month was divided into three categories, (i) a fixed price quantity, (ii) an index price quantity subject to a floor and ceiling price (the “Collared Index Quantity”), and (iii) an index price quantity not subject to a floor or ceiling price (the “Non-Collared Index Quantity”). The price paid for each MMBtu of fixed price quantity was $3.97 per MMBtu. For the amount of gas sold in excess of the fixed price quantity, the price for each MMBtu of gas sold up to the Collared Index Quantity was the Index Price, provided that the price payable each month would in no event be less than $3.00 per MMBtu or more than $5.30 per MMBtu. For the amount of Gas sold in excess of the fixed price quantity plus the Collared Index Quantity, the price for each MMBtu of Gas sold was the sum of (a) the Index Price and (b) a premium
per MMBtu (ranging from $.05 to $.07). The price payable by El Paso for each MMBtu of Gas production in excess of the specified monthly base quantity each month was the sum of the Index Price plus $.02. Pursuant to a Gas Purchase
Agreement amendment, effective January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2002, the price payable by El Paso for each MMBtu for each month was (a) for quantities of Gas up to and including the applicable Monthly Fixed Price Quantity, $3.70 per MMBtu, and (b) for quantities of Gas over and above the Monthly Fixed Price Quantity up to the Monthly Base Quantity, the sum of (i) the Index Price and (ii) a premium per MMBtu, ranging from $.05 to $.07, multiplied by 0.9826, the wet/dry conversion factor. Pursuant to that same Gas Purchase Agreement amendment, commencing January 1, 2002, the price payable by El Paso for each MMBtu over and above the Monthly Base Quantity equaled the sum of (i) the Index Price and (ii) $.02 per MMBtu, multiplied by 0.9826, the wet/dry conversion factor. Pursuant to the same Gas Purchase Agreement amendment, commencing January 1, 2003, the price for quantities up to and including the Monthly Base Quantity shall be the sum of (i) the Index Price and (ii) a premium per MMBtu, ranging from $.05 to $.07, multiplied by 0.9826, the wet/dry conversion factor. Pursuant to the same Gas Purchase Agreement amendment, commencing January 1, 2003, the price for quantities up to and including the Monthly Base Quantity shall be the sum of (i) the Index Price and (ii) a premium per MMBtu, ranging from $.05 to $.07, multiplied by 0.9826, the wet/dry conversion factor. Pursuant to the July 1, 2002 Gas Purchase Agreement amendment, effective January 1, 2003, the price payable by El Paso for each MMBtu of Gas produced up to and including the applicable monthly specified base quantity during each month shall be divided into two categories, a Fixed Price quantity and an Index Price Quantity. Until December 31, 2003, the price payable by El Paso for each MMBtu of Gas produced up to and including the applicable monthly Fixed Price Quantity shall be $3.68 per MMBtu. The price payable by El Paso for each MMBtu of Gas produced in excess of the applicable monthly Fixed Price Quantity and up to and including the applicable monthly Index Price Quantity shall be the sum of (i) the Index Price and (ii) a premium per MMBtu, ranging from $.05 to $.07, multiplied by 0.9826, the wet/dry conversion factor. Commencing January 1, 2004, the pricing formula for the Index Price Quantity described in the immediately preceding sentence shall apply to the entire monthly base quantity. Also effective January 1, 2004, the price payable by El Paso for Gas production in excess of the specified monthly base quantity each month shall be the sum of the Index Price and $.02 per MMBtu, multiplied by 0.9826, the wet/dry conversion factor. Effective January 31, 2004, the Gas Purchase Agreement was terminated. Effective February 1, 2004, Gas will be sold on a month to month basis to various purchasers until such time as a long-term contract can be secured.
The Gas Purchase Agreement, and the amendments thereto, are filed as exhibits to this Form 10-K, and the foregoing summary of the material terms of such agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of such agreement and amendments as set forth in such exhibits.
Operation of Properties
No Control by Trust. Under the terms of the Conveyance, neither the Trustees nor Unitholders will be able to influence or control the operation or future development of the Underlying Properties. Unitholders will therefore be reliant on the Company and the other working interest owners to make all decisions regarding operations on the Underlying Properties. The Trust will not be able to appoint or control the appointment of operators.
The Conveyance does not prohibit the transfer of the Underlying Properties by the Company, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests. The Company and the other working interest owners of the Underlying Properties will have the right, subject to certain restrictions, to abandon any well or lease on the Underlying Properties under certain circumstances. Upon abandonment of any such well or lease, that portion of the Royalty Interests relating thereto will be extinguished. See “-Sale and Abandonment of the Underlying Properties.”
Operating Agreement. Pursuant to the Operating Agreement, ConocoPhillips operated and maintained the Underlying Properties for the Company and the other working interest owners until January 1, 2003. As amended October 30, 1996, the Operating Agreement had a 3-year term and was to be automatically renewed for additional one-year periods unless either party provided written notice to the other party of its desire to terminate the Operating Agreement before the end of the current calendar year. On December 27, 2000, Dominion Resources notified ConocoPhillips that it was terminating the automatic one-year extension of the agreement. As such, the Operating Agreement was amended effective January 1, 2003 naming Dominion Black Warrior Basin, Inc. as the operator of the underlying properties.
Sale and Abandonment of Underlying Properties
The Company has the right to abandon any well or lease included in the Underlying Properties if, in its opinion, acting as would a reasonably prudent operator, such well or lease is not capable of producing Gas in commercial quantities
(determined before giving effect to the Royalty Interests). Neither the Trust nor the Unitholders will control the timing of the plugging and abandoning of any wells. Through December 31, 2003, none of the wells included in the Underlying Properties had been plugged and abandoned.
The Company may sell its interest in the Underlying Properties, subject to and burdened by the Royalty Interests, without the consent of the Trust or Unitholders. Under the Trust Agreement, the Company has certain rights (but not the obligation) to purchase the Royalty Interests upon termination of the Trust. See “Business-Description of the Trust Agreement-Termination and Liquidation of the Trust.”
Dominion Resources’s Assurances
Pursuant to the Trust Agreement, Dominion Resources has agreed to cause each of the following obligations to be paid in full when due: (i) all liabilities and operating and capital expenses that any Company Interests Owner becomes obligated to pay as a result of such Company Interests Owner’s obligations under the Conveyance and (ii) the obligations of the Company to indemnify the Trust, the Trustee and the Delaware Trustee for certain environmental liabilities under the Trust Agreement (collectively, the “Payment Obligations”).
The Trustee may, at any time after the 10th day following receipt by Dominion Resources of written notice from the Trustee that a Payment Obligation has not been paid when due, make demand of Dominion Resources for payment stating the amount due. Dominion Resources is obligated to cure any failure to pay the obligation within 10 days following receipt of the foregoing demand. After written request of the Unitholders owning of record not less than 25 percent of the Units then outstanding served upon the Trustee, and absent action by the Trustee within 10 days following receipt by the Trustee of such written request to enforce such obligations for the benefit of the Trust, such Unitholders may, acting as a single class and on behalf of the Trust, seek to enforce Dominion Resources’s performance obligations.
All of Dominion Resources’s obligations will terminate upon: (i) the termination and cancellation of the Trust, (ii) the sale or other transfer by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company’s interest in the Underlying Properties subject to the terms of the Trust Agreement and (iii) the sale or other transfer of a majority of Dominion Resources’s direct or indirect equity ownership interest in the Company; provided that, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) above, Dominion Resources’s obligations will terminate only if: (a) the transferee has a specified credit rating or the transferee together with an affiliate that guarantees the transferee’s obligations has not less than a specified net worth or (b) the transferee is approved by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Units; and provided further, that in the case of clauses (ii) or (iii) above the transferee also unconditionally agrees in writing, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, to assume Dominion Resources’s remaining obligations under the Trust Agreement with respect to the assets transferred and under the Administrative Services Agreement.
Title to Properties
Alabama counsel to Dominion Resources and the Company has opined that the Company’s title to its interest in the Underlying Properties, and the Trust’s title to the Royalty Interests, are good and defensible in accordance with standards generally accepted in the natural gas industry, subject to such exceptions that, in the opinion of Alabama counsel, are not so material as to detract substantially from the use or value of the Company Interests or the Royalty Interests.
Although the matter is not entirely free from doubt, Alabama counsel has opined that the Royalty Interests constitute interests in real property under Alabama law. Consistent therewith, the Conveyance states that the Royalty Interests constitute real property interests. The Company has recorded the Conveyance in the appropriate real property records of Alabama in accordance with local recordation provisions. If, during the term of the Trust, the Company or any Company Interests Owner becomes involved as a debtor in bankruptcy proceedings under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, it is not entirely clear that the Royalty Interests would be treated as real property interests under the laws of Alabama.
Item 3.