ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES
We generally hold mineral interests through patented and unpatented mining and mill site claims, leases of patented and unpatented mining claims and joint venture and other agreements. Patented and Unpatented mining claims are held subject to paramount title in the United States. In order to retain these claims, we must pay annual maintenance fees to the BLM and to the counties within which the claims are located. Rates for these jurisdictions vary and may change over time. Other obligations which must be met include obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory permits and lease and option payments to claim owners.
For purposes of organizing and describing our exploration efforts in the United States, we have grouped our properties into two complexes, the Basin Gulch Complex and the Jungo Complex. Mineral properties outside these areas and where we to date have performed limited exploration work are grouped as "Other United States Properties." Certain properties are subject to certain royalty and earn-in rights.
Jungo Project The Jungo gold exploration project is located approximately 50 miles northwest of the town of Winnemucca, in Humboldt County, Nevada. It is accessed by excellent county-maintained gravel roads west from Winnemucca then north from Jungo junction. The last three miles to the property are by poor quality dirt roads. The property is situated on the eastern margin of the Jackson Mountains.
Geologic Setting:
The Jungo property is underlain by Pretertiary metasedimentary and metadiorite rocks that have locally been covered and intruded by younger, possibly Miocene, volcanic units. These units are largely covered by unconsolidated gravels from the adjacent mountainside, and by Pleistocene lake beds. A series of range-front normal faults offsets these units and is probably associated with mineralization on the property. A key player in mineralization is likely an apparent volcanic vent that was intersected in trenching and drilling, and appears associated with the range-front faulting.
Property:
The property is on BLM land and is held by 95 unpatented lode mining claims. Twenty five of the claims have a two percent net smelter return royalty to William (Bill) Hansen. The other 70 claims are owned by DGRI.
The property was acquired by DGRI by the transaction with Aultra Gold in January 2010. Mr. Hansen originally showed the property to Aultra Gold (“AGI”), which acquired it and staked additional claims.
Work on the Property:
AGI Exploration:
Mr. Hansen told AGI that he had several years earlier drilled three holes on the property, but the earlier records were lost. AGI surface sampled the property and completed two trenches in 2007. AGI’s sampling and trenching produced encouraging results. Among the promising results was a twenty-foot interval in the first of two trenches that assayed 0.042 opt gold and more than 0.5 opt silver. A select sample of trench rock assayed 0.6 opt gold and 4.44 opt silver.
An isolated pit to bedrock almost 2,000 feet to the northwest assayed 0.11 opt gold and 3.80 opt silver.
2010 Trenching Program by Dutch
During the spring of 2010, DGRI completed three new trenches at Jungo. The 2010 Trench JTP-3 was sited 1020 feet north of the northern 2007 trench and was dug in an easterly down-slope orientation to cut across the base of the eastern hillside of the Jackson Mountains. Trench JTP-3 exposed altered Pretertiary metamorphosed sedimentary and igneous rocks that have been locally intruded by younger sialic shallow igneous rocks. All of the rocks have been fundamentally shattered and sheared, with the appearance of volcanic venting. Trench JTP-3 exposed the apparent continuation of the silicic gold-bearing volcanic vent rocks that were seen in the northern 2007 trench. The interval from 140 feet to 270 feet in Trench JTP-3 had the appearance of a volcanic vent zone. It contained erratic blocks of altered older metamorphic rocks and visibly copper-bearing rocks from an earlier mineralizing event, mixed with and locally dominated by younger highly silicic gassy volcanics. The zone is gold bearing. The trench interval from 200 to 210 feet assayed 0.048 opt gold and 0.5 opt silver. The interval from 240 to 250 feet contained 0.076 opt gold and 2.6 ounces silver. The adjacent interval from 250 to 260 feet assayed 0.017 opt gold and a half-ounce silver.
The eastern margin of trench JTP-2, located 400 feet north of Trench JTP-3, averaged 0.028 opt gold and 0.67 opt silver from 10 to 60 feet. Within this zone, the interval from 50 to 60 foot assayed 0.087 opt gold and .71 opt silver.
New information from Kernow Resources
During the summer of 2010, DGRI was able to track down information on the historic exploration done on the property. Key information, including historic drill cuttings and core, with partial assaying, was graciously given to DGRI by Kernow Resources. DGRI was told that eleven of approximately 20 permitted holes in the Jungo area were actually drilled during the 1990’s. DGRI is reviewing these cores and cuttings. Most of these holes were drilled to the west and east of DGRI’s target area because they were targeted on geophysical anomalies. DGRI is focused on apparently younger silicified volcanic vent materials that appear to be low in sulfides, and unlikely to form a strong geophysical signature. It appears that the previous explorers didn’t recognize the vent structures while they were focused on drilling the sulfide-related geophysical targets and a visibly copper-stained vein system.
DGRI believes that at least two stages of mineralization occurred in the area. An earlier high-temperature period of mineralization was copper-rich, with limited gold and zinc accessory mineralization. This stage of mineralization had locally strong sulfides, and is likely associated with the geophysical targets. A later apparently lower temperature period of mineralization contains more gold and silver with lower sulfide content that was all oxidized in Dutch’s trenches.
The earlier exploration was conducted during a time of lower, and dropping gold prices, and Kernow reportedly had money constraints for continued exploration. Nevertheless, the company had encouraging results, as described in their web site:
“Sulphide mineralization sampled from outcrop and trenches contains anomalous gold, silver, mercury, copper and zinc values. Gold assays from trenching and outcrop range between 0.1 g/t Au and 37 g/t Au. The “sulphide” zone which trends north northeast across the property has been intersected in several drill holes containing in one instance 2.71% copper, 0.048 opt gold and 1.7 opt (ounces per ton) silver over 14 feet. (Hole SH-6C, a diamond drill hole).”
The Company also intersected several other mineralized zones in the overall very shallow drilling. Only three of the holes were core holes, and a comparison of two nearby holes, SH-3, a reverse-circulation (RC) hole, and SH-6C, a core hole, shows the mineralization could be better than suggested by the RC holes. A comparison of two key shallow zones in the two holes shows 0.034 opt gold, 1.02 opt silver, and 2.72% copper in the upper zone of the RC hole, versus 0.049 opt gold, 1.72 opt silver, and 2.83% copper in the core hole. The lower compared zone shows 0.004 opt gold, 0.06 opt silver and 0.07 percent copper in the RC hole, versus 0.052 opt gold, 1.76 opt silver and 0.12% copper in the core hole. Reduced values often occur in RC holes because of cuttings loss, gravity separation during the blowing of cuttings out of the hole, and from “floating” of the gold and sulfides in drill fluids. Although these holes did not intersect Dutch’s target zone, they show extensive mineralization across the area drilled, which is considered very encouraging. Kernow’s information also shows a steeply-west dipping zone containing 56 feet of 0.026 opt gold that is not Dutch’s target zone, nor has it been drill-tested.
Kernow concluded: “There has been a considerable amount of work carried out on the Shawnee that has identified at least two phases of near surface mineralization which, for the most part, appears to be structurally controlled and associated with the range front faulting. Recent geophysical surveys and review of previous data infers that the mineralization continues at depth. Geochemistry infers that there is an upper and lower system or that there is metal zonation around an intrusive.
Compilation of all the data generated to date also indicates that the majority of the drilling has not adequately tested any of the geophysical targets generated by the either the gradient array survey or the di-pole di-pole survey.
Considering the strong indicator element geochemistry and the strength of the upper mineralized system the principal target at the Shawnee is now defined as being a wide, structurally prepared high silica, polymetallic multiple vein/stockwork system, the top of which gains strength and continuity approximately 400 feet below surface and continues at depth. This theory is reinforced by the real section I.P. and the Resistivity measurements that accompany it. Alteration exposed on surface and in drill holes confirms that the mineralization encountered to date is high in the system.”
In its evaluation of the new date, DGRI concluded that the newly identified volcanic vent had not been tested, nor had the deeper mineralization postulated by Kernow. The extensive shallow low-grade mineralization discovered in the earlier drilling and trenching, and in DGRI’s trenching, also encourage DGRI that the possibility exists that in-fill and step-out drilling will establish an open-pit gold deposit. Most of Nevada’s new mines were discovered and established over a series of exploration programs that progressively built an economic reserve.
Planned drilling
Upon review, DGRI determined that the younger volcanic vent system had not been drill-tested. DGRI plans to drill an angled core hole to obtain more information on the vent zone during the second quarter of 2011.
DGRI’s Overview of Project
DGRI has been contacted by outside companies, at least one of which is actively exploring in the local area, regarding a possible farm-out or joint venture. DGRI believes the property has significant promise. DGRI believes the geology of the Jungo project has similarities to the geology of numerous other projects in the immediate area. The project’s proximity to other projects is also significant to DGRI, and, reportedly to a company operating in the area that has approached DGRI regarding the project.
The following map illustrates the general location of the Basin Gulch Project in Montana:
Description of Basin Gulch Property, Montana
The Basin Gulch area has historically been mined by traditional placer methods, including hydraulic mining since the early part of the last century. The remains of this mining activity still exist on the site in the form of collapsed short adits, excavations, mine ponds, remains of log cabins and outbuildings, and log and dirt dams and hydraulic diversion structures. Magma Gold Inc. (MGI), who discovered the Basin Gulch deposit, explored the lode source of the placer gold from the late 1980s until 1997. To date, 323 reverse circulation and core holes have been drilled on the property for a total of 89,800 feet, with holes ranging from 80 feet to 1,050 feet in depth. In addition, 40 test trenches with a total length of 17,000 feet have taken place. In addition to the drilling, there have been two geophysical surveys, soil geochemistry surveys, topographic surveys, and geologic mapping projects carried out on the property. Most of these studies were conducted under the direction of Rauno Perttu, DGRI’s COO, and DGRI posses most of the information from these activities.
The Basin Gulch Project is an advanced stage exploration project with a substantial investment already made in previous exploration work on the property. Most of this work was directed by DGRI’s COO Rauno Perttu on behalf of a private company, of which he was part owner. However, no mining has yet taken place on the site, beyond the older placering and very limited lode prospect pits. In addition, due diligence studies have been carried out on the Basin Gulch property over the last 20 years or so by a number of investigators, and a number of publicly-available reports have been produced by the Montana Bureau of Mines and Geology (MBMG) and the USGS on the general geology of the area.
A NI 43-101, Independent Third-Party Evaluation, prepared by David Brown and Associates (“DBA”) has been provided for the Basin Gulch project, which is an advanced exploration and test mining gold project. The reader is warned that a NI 43-101 study is a Canadian report, and is not compliant with U.S. SEC regulations. The report and earlier reports are not compliant with current SEC regulations and used terms such as “ore”, "measured," "indicated," and "inferred" "resources," which current SEC regulations strictly forbid. An effort has been made to remove such words from this document. Basin Gulch consists of eleven patented mining claims, surrounded by the Deer Lodge National Forest, totaling about 217.9 acres and 45 unpatented claims totaling approximately 900 acres. A number of consultants, exploration companies, and Federal and State of Montana agencies prepared various geological and mineralogical models of Basin Gulch. The claims are all located at the head of Basin Gulch, on the northern slopes the West Fork Buttes, within the Sapphire Range of the Western Montana Rocky Mountains. The property is about 19 road miles west of the town of Philipsburg, Montana, within the Rock Creek Mining District of Granite County. The patented portion of the property is owned by a local Philipsburg family, and is under lease agreement to DGRI. The Basin Gulch area is historically a placer mining area lacking a historical association with a lode source for the placer gold. The local placers have been operated since before the turn of the 20th century up until just recently, although most of the work was conducted during the early 1900’s.
Rauno Perttu, who discovered the Basin Gulch deposit in 1987, was the first to recognize the diatreme complex. He noticed that a significant part of the historic placering had actually been of the upper oxidized portion of the diatreme complex. The diatreme is so extensive, and the clasts are so rounded by mechanical and chemical erosion within the diatreme that they had mistakenly been identified by miners and earlier geologists as stream gravel and cobbles. The nature of the clasts and matrix, plus geological details, led to the recognition of the diatreme complex. Later geophysical studies and drilling confirmed this reinterpretation. To DGRI, the fact that the upper diatreme had been successfully placer mined for coarse free gold is encouraging, and DGRI plans future testing for coarse gold within the diatreme.
Patented Property:
A title study was completed in the mid-1990s by MGI, and there is no reason to believe the results of that work have changed. The property deeds can be viewed at the Granite County Courthouse in Philipsburg, Montana.
The Claims:
The claims are all located in south-central Granite County, in portions of Section 34, Township 7 North, Range 16 West, and Sections 3, 4, and 9, Township 6 North, Range 16 West. The patented mining claims making up the Basin Gulch Group include the following:
These claims were re-traced on the ground by Anderson Engineering of Dillon, Montana in 1996. DGRI has engaged Anderson to update the survey and mapping files for the property, including claim boundaries and drill hole and trench locations.
Mineralization:
The lode mineralization at the head of Basin Gulch is associated with a gaseous Eocene silicic intrusive that invaded between the plates of two Precambrian thrust sheets. The intrusive formed a major diatreme complex that is centered on the gold and silver mineralization, which spreads outward from the diatreme complex over an extensive distance. The intrusive event also formed a number of smaller, parasitic diatremes and breccia zones scattered throughout the property and off the property for several miles in all directions. The gold mineralization is found throughout the site near the surface and at depths in excess of 1,000 feet at levels averaging about 0.01 ounces per ton, with higher grade areas and intercepts. The higher grade zones tend to be associated with the edges of the various diatremes and post- and pre-diatreme faulting that cut the diatremes. The highest grades appear associated with voids formed near and within the diatreme when juvenile and surrounding bedrock material fell back into the diatreme throat during periods of quiescence. This association with voids and faulting has been recognized at other gold sites and is well described in the literature. The pervasive gold mineralization is associated with pervasive silver mineralization, usually at levels ranging from a fraction of an ounce to an ounce per ton, again with higher grade multi-ounce areas. The higher grade silver areas are locally associated with elevated gold values, but can also be independent of gold values, suggesting a complex mineralization history.
Rauno Perttu explored the lode source of the placer gold, and the surrounding region, from the late 1980s until 1997. To date, 323 reverse circulation and core holes have been drilled on the property for a total of 89,800 feet, with holes ranging from 80 feet to 1,050 feet in depth. In addition, 40 test trenches with a total length of 17,000 feet have taken place. DGRI’s predecessors, Magma Gold, Inc.( Mr. Perttu’s private company), Chevron Resources, and Cyprus Exploration have performed the work at various stages in the project. In addition to the drilling, there have been two geophysical surveys, soil geochemistry surveys, topographic surveys, geologic mapping projects, and a wide variety of permitting-related studies carried out on the property. The permitting-related studies included archaeological, soils, water, plants and animals, and even a year-long operating weather station.
Two targets, termed Block A and Block B, have been blocked out by drilling to a certain extent on the property. These two blocks have been explored with 82 drill holes and some 25,546 feet of drilling. In addition, assay samples of every 5-foot interval were taken, for a total of just over 4,700 samples analyzed. Block A and Block B are both located on the edges of the major diatreme complex at the head of Basin Gulch. The mineralization itself is fairly simple, with the gold being fine to very coarse in nature, and easily extracted using cyanidation, and possibly other recovery methods. Test work done for MGI indicates a recovery rate of over 90% with a simple cross-current mill. The historic testing was conducted with the intent of an open-pit mine. By current Montana law, cyanide cannot be used in a heap leach open-pit gold mine, and DGRI has no intent to pursue open-pit mining on the property.
A previous investigation and evaluation requested by MGI for the site using the GEMCON computer program yielded a volume of 129,000,000 tons of rock grading 0.019 ounce per ton for the entire areas A and B site. The results of this study were not available for inspection in preparation of the above mentioned NI 43-101 study that was prepared by David Brown and Associates. However, this data base was used for David Brown Associate’s (DBA) gold volume calculation made of Block A and Block B. The evaluation did not include several other areas of gold mineralization identified by surface sampling, trenching and drilling.
In 2009, DBA was again commissioned to prepare an updated NI 43-101. The updating was required due to the new involvement of DGRI and the discovery of the results from a 1996 GEMCOM ore volume and grade study during a search of project records. The results of this work yield a combined volume of 107,845,000 tons of mineralized material with gold and gold-equivalent silver an average grade of 0.026 opt, or 633,333,330 tons with an average grade of 0.012 opt. Cutoff grade was 0.005 opt Au. As with the 2005 document, the ore body is open in all five directions, including downward.
Planned 2011 Evaluations
The Basin Gulch property was locally extensively drilled as a large, low-grade open-pit mine, but is being revaluated for its localized high-grade deposits. During the first half of 2011 DGRI plans to focus on selected areas where earlier drilling intersected high-grade mineralization at shallow levels. DGRI has selected the first three of these areas for new drilling. Much of this new drilling will be in the form of “in-fill” drilling to better understand the geometry and continuity of already identified high-grade zones. The goal of this planned new drilling will be to reach a confidence level that will allow the development of an early small shallow test mine.
Untested diatreme target
This property is also believed to have strong potential for deeper high-grade reserves within the “boiling zone” of the diatreme complex. As discussed above, the gold and silver mineralization at Basin Gulch is associated with a large volcanic nested diatreme complex, which is an oval-shaped area 2,700 feet wide and 3,300 long. The gold and silver mineralization extends outward from the diatreme complex for more than a mile. This complex was formed by an overlapping series of violent volcanic degassing eruptions. Each individual eruption was generally pipe-shaped, and 600 to 800 feet across. Such diatremes host some of the world’s large ore bodies.
Some major Montana gold and silver systems are likewise associated with diatremes. The diatreme complex at Basin Gulch is much larger than mosone” diatreme material that may have been carried upward along the fault was drilled by MGI along a fault zone that ct of these recognized ore-bearing diatremes, and has not been drilled at depth.
DGRI plans to permit and begin to test the diatreme complex for a postulated “boiling zone” ore body during the second half of 2011. While there is no certainty of successfully finding such an ore body, DGRI is encouraged by the size and pervasiveness of the mineralization associated with the Basin Gulch diatreme complex. The Company is further encouraged by the fact that a slice of apparent “boiling zuts through the complex contained strong drill hole assays.
Two holes that drilled into the diatreme slice intersected high-grade mineralization. The first was a reverse circulation hole, BG94-5RC, which, for its entire 265 foot length, averaged 0.092 ounces per ton (opt) gold. With the addition of its silver content at a conversion ratio of 75/1, the overall average increased to 0.106 opt gold equivalent.
Within the hole were higher grade intervals:
0.214 opt gold equiv from 35 to 55 feet,
0.269 opt from 145 to 165, and
0.564 opt from 205 to 220.
The hole intercepted the diatreme material at an intermediate angle and was not true thickness. It angled out of the side wall of the diatreme slightly below 220 feet.
A 300 foot follow-up core hole that was stepped out 10 feet from 94-5RC averaged 0.099 gold equivalents over its entire length. Within the core hole, the interval from 136 feet to 201 feet (65 feet) averaged 0.308 opt gold equivalent. The core hole also passed out of the side wall of the diatreme.
Permitting Status:
The Company had received a drilling permit in February of 2011 and has posted the requisite bond. New exploration permits are being applied for by DGRI and the previous extensive permitting process in the 1990s is expected to help to streamline new permits. In addition, the previous studies were directed at an open-pit mine. Any new permitting will be directed at a low-impact underground mine, after sufficient high-grade material is blocked out to justify new studies and applications.
In Montana, public and private lands are handled similarly in the permitting process. DGRI must apply for either a blanket exploration permit for Montana, or a specific permit for the Basin Gulch project. In either case, proposed drill sites and trenches must be located on a map, with a detailed description of how the preparation and reclamation of each site will be completed. The State will then have the choice of sending out an inspector to review the proposed plan. The State will subsequently calculate the reclamation bond amount for the work proposed, based on existing State standards. Upon DGRI posting the bond, the Company may then proceed with the exploration work.
During work in the 1990s, none of the proposed exploration follow-up sites had any deleterious aspects that needed mitigating, so no significant obstacles to exploration are anticipated. Regarding anticipated test mining, this work can be conducted under Small Miner’s Exclusion (SME) provisions of the Montana permitting process. The SME process is much faster and simpler than the permitting process for larger mines in Montana, and can be completed within weeks of filing of an application. This property contains a large, open-ended gold and silver resource, select parts of which DGRI believes may be economically mineable under relatively rapid small mine regulations, with a very minimal footprint.
Gold Bug Project
The following map illustrates the general location of the Gold Bug Project in Oregon:
The Gold Bug mine is located in Josephine County, Oregon. The Gold Bug mine is on Whiskey creek in T. 33 S., R. 8 W. near Mount Reuben at elevations of 2400 to 2600 feet as measured by aneroid barometer. The old main adit is now completely blocked by fallen timbers at about 350 feet from the portal. The vein contained gold-bearing quartz with some pyrite and chalcopyrite. The vein was only 1 to 2 feet wide where seen, but even this was stoped out, and thicker vein quartz was reported farther in. The country rock of the old main adit is an andesite containing phenocrysts of plagioclase feldspar in a matrix of plagioclase, green biotite, isotropic chloritic material, and a little magnetite and epidote. The illustration is a copy of an old mine map showing a plan and a vertical section of the old workings.
The geology of Oregon gold locations in the southwestern part of the state is complex and not fully understood, being closely associated with plate tectonics and crustal subduction. Numerous gold-quartz veins can be found in greenstone of the Triassic age (248 - 208 million years ago), which trends in belts from the southwest to the northwest parts of Josephine County. Black slate , peridotite, and serpentine of Jurassic age sometimes contain gold-quartz veins and tend to parallel the greenstone belts. Granite, diorite, and gabbro intrusive bodies can be found in many parts of the county, but are generally devoid of mineralization except where they are in contact with older rocks.
A narrow dike of serpentine may be observed crossing the road within a quarter mile of the mine. Next to the dike the enclosing andesite is considerably altered to epidote, chlorite and quartz. An adit near this outcrop drifts 100 feet on a fissure 1 to 4 feet wide containing 6 inches to 2 feet of quartz striking N. 5° E. and dipping 45° E. The mine is now owned by Romig and Neal. A new incline shaft shows a quartz vein striking N. 35° W and dipping 70° S. W. The vein-filling here is 12 to 14 inches thick and chiefly quartz stained by chrysocolla. A new crosscut adit extends N. 21° E. about 100 feet in andesite. Work was in progress here in the summer of 1913. The mine is connected with the railroad at Reuben Spur by a good mountain road.
The Gold Bug Mine produced 37,500 ounces. The production occurred primarily in the period between 1913 and 1942.
Dutch Mining, LLC owns the property in fee simple title. The project is accessible by county roads and BLM roads crisscross Mt. Rueben. There is little additional infrastructure. The Company has no plans to develop this property in the near future.
The following graphic depicts the Gold Bug Project:
Item 3.