ITEM 2.PROPERTIES
We generally hold mineral interests through patented and unpatented mining and mill site claims, leases of patented and unpatented mining claims and joint venture and other agreements. Patented and Unpatented mining claims are held subject to paramount title in the United States. In order to retain these claims, we must pay annual maintenance fees to the BLM and to the counties within which the claims are located. Rates for these jurisdictions vary and may change over time. Other obligations that must be met include obtaining and maintaining necessary regulatory permits and lease and option payments to claim owners.
For purposes of organizing and describing our exploration efforts in the United States, we have grouped our properties into two complexes, the Basin Gulch Complex and the Jungo Complex. Mineral properties outside these areas and where we to date have performed limited exploration work are grouped as "Other United States Properties." Certain properties are subject to certain royalty and earn-in rights.
Minnie Moore Mines
The Company entered into lease agreements with the Bilbray Trust and the Johnston Trust for a project located near Bellevue, Idaho during the third quarter of 2011. The Company terminated its lease agreement with Minnie Moore Mine effective as of December 31, 2011.
Jungo Project The Jungo gold exploration project is located approximately 50 miles northwest of the town of Winnemucca, in Humboldt County, Nevada. Excellent county-maintained gravel roads access it west from Winnemucca then north from Jungo junction. The last three miles to the property are by poor quality dirt roads. The property is situated on the eastern margin of the Jackson Mountains.
The following map illustrates the general location of the Jungo gold exploration project in Nevada:
Geologic Setting:
The Jungo property is underlain by Pretertiary metasedimentary and metadiorite rocks that have locally been covered and intruded by younger, possibly Miocene, volcanic units. These units are largely covered by unconsolidated gravels from the adjacent mountainside, and by Pleistocene lake beds. A series of range-front normal faults offsets these units and is probably associated with mineralization on the property. A key player in mineralization is likely an apparent volcanic vent that was intersected in trenching and drilling, and appears associated with the range-front faulting.
Property:
The property is on BLM land and is held by 95 unpatented lode mining claims. Twenty five of the claims have a two percent net smelter return royalty to William (Bill) Hansen. The other 70 claims are owned by DGRI.
The property was acquired by DGRI by the transaction with Aultra Gold in January 2010. Mr. Hansen originally showed the property to Aultra Gold (“AGI”), which acquired it and staked additional claims.
Work on the Property:
AGI Exploration:
Mr. Hansen told AGI that he had several years earlier drilled three holes on the property, but the earlier records were lost. AGI surface sampled the property and completed two trenches in 2007. AGI’s sampling and trenching produced encouraging results. Among the promising results was a twenty-foot interval in the first of two trenches that assayed 0.042 opt gold and more than 0.5 opt silver. A select sample of trench rock assayed 0.6 opt gold and 4.44 opt silver.
An isolated pit to bedrock almost 2,000 feet to the northwest assayed 0.11 opt gold and 3.80 opt silver.
2010 Trenching Program by Dutch
During the spring of 2010, DGRI completed three new trenches at Jungo. The 2010 Trench JTP-3 was sited 1020 feet north of the northern 2007 trench and was dug in an easterly down-slope orientation to cut across the base of the eastern hillside of the Jackson Mountains. Trench JTP-3 exposed altered Pretertiary metamorphosed sedimentary and igneous rocks that have been locally intruded by younger sialic shallow igneous rocks. All of the rocks have been fundamentally shattered and sheared, with the appearance of volcanic venting. Trench JTP-3 exposed the apparent continuation of the silicic gold-bearing volcanic vent rocks that were seen in the northern 2007 trench. The interval from 140 feet to 270 feet in Trench JTP-3 had the appearance of a volcanic vent zone. It contained erratic blocks of altered older metamorphic rocks and visibly copper-bearing rocks from an earlier mineralizing event, mixed with and locally dominated by younger highly silicic gassy volcanics. The zone is gold bearing. The trench interval from 200 to 210 feet assayed 0.048 opt gold and 0.5 opt silver. The interval from 240 to 250 feet contained 0.076 opt gold and 2.6 ounces silver. The adjacent interval from 250 to 260 feet assayed 0.017 opt gold and a half-ounce silver.
The eastern margin of trench JTP-2, located 400 feet north of Trench JTP-3, averaged 0.028 opt gold and 0.67 opt silver from 10 to 60 feet. Within this zone, the interval from 50 to 60 foot assayed 0.087 opt gold and .71 opt silver.
Data from Kernow Resources
During the summer of 2010, DGRI was able to locate information on the historic exploration done on the property. Key information, including historic drill cuttings and core, with partial assaying, was graciously given to DGRI by Kernow Resources. DGRI was told that eleven of approximately 20 permitted holes in the Jungo area were actually drilled during the 1990’s. DGRI is reviewing these cores and cuttings. Most of these holes were drilled to the west and east of DGRI’s target area because they were targeted on geophysical anomalies. DGRI is focused on apparently younger silicified volcanic vent materials that appear to be low in sulfides, and unlikely to form a strong geophysical signature. It appears that the previous explorers didn’t recognize the vent structures while they were focused on drilling the sulfide-related geophysical targets and a visibly copper-stained vein system.
DGRI believes that at least two stages of mineralization occurred in the area. An earlier high-temperature period of mineralization was copper-rich, with limited gold and zinc accessory mineralization. This stage of mineralization had locally strong sulfides, and is likely associated with the geophysical targets. A later apparently lower temperature period of mineralization contains more gold and silver with lower sulfide content that was all oxidized in Dutch’s trenches.
The earlier exploration was conducted during a time of lower, and dropping gold prices, and Kernow reportedly had money constraints for continued exploration. Nevertheless, the company had encouraging results, as described in their web site:
“Sulphide mineralization sampled from outcrop and trenches contain anomalous gold, silver, mercury, copper and zinc values. Gold assays from trenching and outcrop range between 0.1 g/t Au and 37 g/t Au. The “sulphide” zone which trends north northeast across the property has been intersected in several drill holes containing in one instance 2.71% copper, 0.048 opt gold and 1.7 opt (ounces per ton) silver over 14 feet. (Hole SH-6C, a diamond drill hole).”
The Company also intersected several other mineralized zones in the overall very shallow drilling. Only three of the holes were core holes, and a comparison of two nearby holes, SH-3, a reverse-circulation (RC) hole, and SH-6C, a core hole, shows the mineralization could be better than suggested by the RC holes. A comparison of two key shallow zones in the two holes shows 0.034 opt gold, 1.02 opt silver, and 2.72% copper in the upper zone of the RC hole, versus 0.049 opt gold, 1.72 opt silver, and 2.83% copper in the core hole. The lower compared zone shows 0.004 opt gold, 0.06 opt silver and 0.07 percent copper in the RC hole, versus 0.052 opt gold, 1.76 opt silver and 0.12% copper in the core hole. Reduced values often occur in RC holes because of cuttings loss, gravity separation during the blowing of cuttings out of the hole, and from “floating” of the gold and sulfides in drill fluids. Although these holes did not intersect Dutch’s target zone, they show extensive mineralization across the area drilled, which is considered very encouraging. Kernow’s information also shows a steeply-west dipping zone containing 56 feet of 0.026 opt gold that is not Dutch’s target zone, nor has it been drill-tested.
Kernow concluded: “There has been a considerable amount of work carried out on the Shawnee that has identified at least two phases of near surface mineralization which, for the most part, appears to be structurally controlled and associated with the range front faulting. Recent geophysical surveys and review of previous data infers that the mineralization continues at depth. Geochemistry infers that there is an upper and lower system or that there is metal zonation around an intrusive.
Compilation of all the data generated to date also indicates that the majority of the drilling has not adequately tested any of the geophysical targets generated by the either the gradient array survey or the di-pole di-pole survey.
Considering the strong indicator element geochemistry and the strength of the upper mineralized system the principal target at the Shawnee is now defined as being a wide, structurally prepared high silica, polymetallic multiple vein/stockwork system, the top of which gains strength and continuity approximately 400 feet below surface and continues at depth. This theory is reinforced by the real section I.P. and the Resistivity measurements that accompany it. Alteration exposed on surface and in drill holes confirms that the mineralization encountered to date is high in the system.”
In its evaluation of the new date, DGRI concluded that the newly identified volcanic vent had not been tested, nor had the deeper mineralization postulated by Kernow. The extensive shallow low-grade mineralization discovered in the earlier drilling and trenching, and in DGRI’s trenching, also encourage DGRI that the possibility exists that in-fill and step-out drilling will establish an open-pit gold deposit. Most of Nevada’s new mines were discovered and established over a series of exploration programs that progressively built an economic reserve.
2011 Developments
During January of 2011, the Company completed drill core hole 11-1C at Jungo, to angle across a portion of the interpreted volcanic breccia pipe. The hole was angled -60 degrees northwest to undercut a trench dug earlier by Dutch that crossed a broad mineralized zone with strong silicification, sinter, and fine-grained igneous rocks.
The core hole confirmed the trench structure. The core interval from 60 feet to 336 feet was dominated by fine-grained shallow sialic igneous rock mixed with local blocks and fragments of Pretertiary sedimentary rocks and chloritized diorite. The interval contained abundant bleaching, silicification, clay-like alteration, and apparent volcanic ash and pumice. The entire interval contained very abundant sulfides, with local zones that are mostly pyrite. The sulfides are associated with zones of shearing, tectonic flow structures, and crackle breccia textures. The interval appears to cross a volcanic vent zone that developed along the range front faulting.
The property appears to contain at least two mineral systems, an earlier, higher temperature copper-dominated system, and a later lower temperature gold and silver dominated system.
The drill hole intersected an interval containing 1.4 percent copper from 55 to 70 feet. This copper zone has been encountered in trenches and prior drilling on the property to the north. Although the interpreted vent zone in the drill hole is considered to be high in the structure, almost all of the zone from 60 feet to 336 feet contained measurable levels of gold. The interval from 75 feet to 80 feet assayed 0.017 opt gold and 0.2 opt silver. The interval from 105 feet to 115 feet assayed 0.02 opt gold and 0.5 opt silver. The interval from 146 feet to 148 feet assayed 0.04 opt gold and 0.5 opt silver. A two-inch sample selected for more detailed assaying at 105 feet assayed 0.5 opt gold and 10 opt silver, suggesting a possible nugget effect.
The Company considers this drill hole to be encouraging. The hole intersected a strong, thick zone with strong sulfides. The strong sulfides, coupled with strong arsenic and measurable gold and silver over a broad zone at a very shallow part of the system suggests to the Company that this zone needs to be drilled at deeper levels to explore for high grade mineralization. The Company’s trenching and drilling have established persistent mineralization over an open-ended area several hundred feet wide that extends for 2,000 foot along the range front and has not yet been limited.
DGRI’s Overview of Project and Joint Venture Agreement
DGRI has been contacted by outside companies, at least one of which is actively exploring in the local area, regarding a possible leasing or joint venture arrangement. DGRI believes the property has significant promise. DGRI believes the geology of the Jungo project has similarities to the geology of numerous other projects in the immediate area.
On September 2, 2011, the Company announced a joint venture with Avidian Gold USA, Inc. (“Avidian”) a privately held company. Under the terms of the agreement, Avidian is responsible for the carrying costs of the project, including fees and taxes. Avidian is obligated to perform certain drilling and exploration activities under the lease.
Basin Gulch Project
The following map illustrates the general location of the Basin Gulch Project in Montana:
Description of Basin Gulch Property, Montana
The Basin Gulch area has historically been mined by traditional placer methods, including hydraulic mining since the early part of the last century. The remains of this mining activity still exist on the site in the form of collapsed short adits, excavations, mine ponds, remains of log cabins and outbuildings, and log and dirt dams and hydraulic diversion structures. Magma Gold Inc. (MGI), who discovered the Basin Gulch deposit, explored the lode source of the placer gold from the late 1980s until 1997. To date, 329 reverse circulation and core holes have been drilled on the property for a total of 91,000 feet, with holes ranging from 80 feet to 1,050 feet in depth. In addition, 40 test trenches with a total length of 17,000 feet have taken place. In addition to the drilling, there have been two geophysical surveys, soil geochemistry surveys, topographic surveys, and geologic mapping projects carried out on the property. Most of these studies were conducted under the direction of Rauno Perttu, DGRI’s COO, and DGRI possess most of the information from these activities.
The Basin Gulch Project is an advanced stage exploration project with a substantial investment already made in previous exploration work on the property. Most of this work was directed by DGRI’s COO Rauno Perttu on behalf of a private company, of which he was part owner. However, no mining has yet taken place on the site, beyond the older placering and very limited lode prospect pits. In addition, due diligence studies have been carried out on the Basin Gulch property over the last 20 years or so by a number of investigators, and a number of publicly-available reports have been produced by the Montana Bureau of Mines and Geology (MBMG) and the USGS on the general geology of the area.
Basin Gulch consists of eleven patented mining claims, surrounded by the Deer Lodge National Forest, totaling about 217.9 acres and 45 unpatented claims totaling approximately 900 acres. A number of consultants, exploration companies, and Federal and State of Montana agencies prepared various geological and mineralogical models of Basin Gulch. The claims are all located at the head of Basin Gulch, on the northern slopes the West Fork Buttes, within the Sapphire Range of the Western Montana Rocky Mountains. The property is about 19 road miles west of the town of Philipsburg, Montana, within the Rock Creek Mining District of Granite County. The patented portion of the property is owned by a local Philipsburg family, and is under lease agreement to DGRI. The Basin Gulch area is historically a placer mining area lacking a historical association with a lode source for the placer gold. The local placers have been operated since before the turn of the 20th century up until just recently, although most of the work was conducted during the early 1900’s.
Miners and earlier geologists had mistakenly identified them as stream gravel and cobbles. Rauno Perttu, who discovered the Basin Gulch deposit in 1987, was the first to recognize the diatreme complex. He noticed that a significant part of the historic placering had actually been of the upper oxidized portion of the diatreme complex. The diatreme is so extensive, and the clasts are so rounded by mechanical and chemical erosion within the diatreme that miners and earlier geologists as stream gravel and cobbles had mistakenly identified them. The nature of the clasts and matrix, plus geological details, led to the recognition of the diatreme complex. Later geophysical studies and drilling confirmed this reinterpretation. To DGRI, the fact that the upper diatreme had been successfully placer mined for coarse free gold is encouraging, and DGRI plans future testing for coarse gold within the diatreme.
Patented Property:
A title study was completed in the mid-1990s by MGI, and there is no reason to believe the results of that work have changed. The property deeds can be viewed at the Granite County Courthouse in Philipsburg, Montana.
The Claims:
The claims are all located in south-central Granite County, in portions of Section 34, Township 7 North, Range 16 West, and Sections 3, 4, and 9, Township 6 North, Range 16 West. The patented mining claims making up the Basin Gulch Group include the following:
(i) Landes (Mineral Survey 5565)
(ii) Shylock (Mineral Survey 6354)
(iii) Shively (Mineral Survey 5755)
(iv) Quartz Hill (Mineral Survey 5564)
(v) Spencerian (Mineral Survey 8140)
(vi) Gold Hill 5 (Mineral Survey 5755)
(vii) Basin (Mineral Survey 9026)
(viii) Blue Bell Lode (Mineral Survey 9530)
(ix) White Pine (Mineral Survey 8137)
(x) Yellow Pine (Mineral Survey 8139)
(xi) Jack White (Mineral Survey 8138)
These claims were re-traced on the ground by Anderson Engineering of Dillon, Montana in 1996. DGRI has engaged Anderson to update the survey and mapping files for the property, including claim boundaries and drill hole and trench locations.
Mineralization:
The lode mineralization at the head of Basin Gulch is associated with a gaseous Eocene silicic intrusive that invaded between the plates of two Precambrian thrust sheets. The intrusive formed a major diatreme complex that is centered on the gold and silver mineralization, which spreads outward from the diatreme complex over an extensive distance. The intrusive event also formed a number of smaller, parasitic diatremes and breccia zones scattered throughout the property and off the property for several miles in all directions. The gold mineralization is found throughout the site near the surface and at depths in excess of 1,000 feet at levels averaging about 0.01 ounces per ton, with higher grade areas and intercepts. The higher grade zones tend to be associated with the edges of the various diatremes and post- and pre-diatreme faulting that cut the diatremes. The highest grades appear associated with voids formed near and within the diatreme when juvenile and surrounding bedrock material fell back into the diatreme throat during periods of quiescence. This association with voids and faulting has been recognized at other gold sites and is well described in the literature. The pervasive gold mineralization is associated with pervasive silver mineralization, usually at levels ranging from a fraction of an ounce to an ounce per ton, again with higher grade multi-ounce areas. The higher grade silver areas are locally associated with elevated gold values, but can also be independent of gold values, suggesting a complex mineralization history.
Rauno Perttu explored the lode source of the placer gold, and the surrounding region, from the late 1980s until 1997. To date, 329 reverse circulation and core holes have been drilled on the property for a total of 91,000 feet, with holes ranging from 80 feet to 1,050 feet in depth. In addition, 40 test trenches with a total length of 17,000 feet have taken place. DGRI’s predecessors, Magma Gold, Inc. (Mr. Perttu’s private company), Chevron Resources, and Cyprus Exploration have performed the work at various stages in the project. In addition to the drilling, there have been two geophysical surveys, soil geochemistry surveys, topographic surveys, geologic mapping projects, and a wide variety of permitting-related studies carried out on the property. The permitting-related studies included archaeological, soils, water, plants and animals, and even a year-long operating weather station.
Two targets, termed Block A and Block B, have been blocked out by drilling to a certain extent on the property. These two blocks have been explored with 82 drill holes and some 25,546 feet of drilling. In addition, assay samples of every 5-foot interval were taken, for a total of just over 4,700 samples analyzed. Block A and Block B are both located on the edges of the major diatreme complex at the head of Basin Gulch. The mineralization itself is fairly simple, with the gold being fine to very coarse in nature, and easily extracted using cyanidation, and possibly other recovery methods. Test work done for MGI indicates a recovery rate of over 90% with a simple cross-current mill. The historic testing was conducted with the intent of an open-pit mine. By current Montana law, cyanide cannot be used in a heap leach open-pit gold mine, and DGRI has no intent to pursue open-pit mining on the property.
A previous investigation and evaluation requested by MGI for the site using the GEMCON computer program yielded a volume of 129,000,000 tons of rock grading 0.019 ounce per ton for the entire areas A and B site. However, this data base was used for David Brown Associate’s (DBA) gold volume calculation made of Block A and Block B. The evaluation did not include several other areas of gold mineralization identified by surface sampling, trenching and drilling.
In 2009, DBA was again commissioned to prepare a third party report. The updating was required due to the new involvement of DGRI and the discovery of the results from a 1996 GEMCOM ore volume and grade study during a search of project records. The results of this work yield a combined volume of 107,845,000 tons of mineralized material with gold and gold-equivalent silver an average grade of 0.026 opt, or 633,333,330 tons with an average grade of 0.012 opt. Cutoff grade was 0.005 opt Au. As with the 2005 document, the ore body is open in all five directions, including downward.
2012 Evaluations
The Basin Gulch property was locally extensively drilled as a potential large, low-grade open-pit mine, but is being revaluated for its localized high-grade deposits. During the first half of 2012 DGRI plans to focus on selected areas where earlier drilling intersected high-grade mineralization at shallow levels. DGRI has selected the first three of these areas for new drilling. Much of this new drilling will be in the form of “in-fill” drilling to better understand the geometry and continuity of already identified high-grade zones. The goal of this planned new drilling will be to reach a confidence level that will allow the development of an early small shallow test mine.
Untested diatreme target
This property is also believed to have strong potential for deeper high-grade mineralization within the “boiling zone” of the diatreme complex. As discussed above, the gold and silver mineralization at Basin Gulch is associated with a large volcanic nested diatreme complex, which is an oval-shaped area 2,700 feet wide and 3,300 long. The gold and silver mineralization extends outward from the diatreme complex for more than a mile. This complex was formed by an overlapping series of violent volcanic degassing eruptions. Each individual eruption was generally pipe-shaped, and 600 to 800 feet across. Such diatremes host some of the world’s large ore bodies.
Some major Montana gold and silver systems are also associated with diatremes. The diatreme complex at Basin Gulch is much larger and has not been drilled at depth.
DGRI plans to permit and begin to test the diatreme complex for a postulated “boiling zone” ore body during the second half of 2012. While there is no certainty of successfully finding such an ore body, DGRI is encouraged by the size and pervasiveness of the mineralization associated with the Basin Gulch diatreme complex. The Company is further encouraged that a slice of diatreme apparently brought up in a fault zone that cuts through, and many have been a control structure for the diatreme complex, contains strong mineralization that locally exceeds an ounce per ton of gold.
Two holes that drilled into the diatreme slice intersected high-grade mineralization. The first was a reverse circulation hole, BG94-5RC, which, for its entire 265 foot length, averaged 0.092 ounces per ton (opt) gold. With the addition of its silver content at a conversion ratio of 75/1, the overall average increased to 0.106 opt gold equivalent.
Within the hole were higher grade intervals:
0.214 opt gold equiv from 35 to 55 feet,
0.269 opt from 145 to 165, and
0.564 opt from 205 to 220.
The hole intercepted the diatreme material at an intermediate angle and was not true thickness. It angled out of the side wall of the diatreme slightly below 220 feet.
A 300-foot follow-up core hole that was stepped out 10 feet from 94-5RC averaged 0.099 gold equivalents over its entire length. Within the core hole, the interval from 136 feet to 201 feet (65 feet) averaged 0.308 opt gold equivalent. The core hole also passed out of the sidewall of the diatreme.
At Basin Gulch, the Company is planning a staged series of activities prior to any proposed development decision. The following steps are planned for the first Basin Gulch target area, a segment of the Basin Gulch fault adjacent to and north of the diatreme complex.
A.Once sufficient funds are raised, the Company intends to commence a series of angled in-fill holes across that segment of the Basin Gulch fault to determine continuity, grade, and geometry of the mineralization that was encountered by the holes previously drilled into the structure. The ultimate number and location of holes will be determined by the progressive results of the drilling.
B.When enough drill hole information has been completed, samples of the material to be mined will be sent to a laboratory such as Kappes, Cassiday and Associates or Dawson Metallurgical Laboratories for recovery testing. Both of these laboratories, among others, have already tested significant volumes of material from the property for recovery characteristics, with excellent results.
C.An engineering evaluation will be completed. Depending on favorable results in the steps above, appropriate studies will be completed to obtain the required permits from the State of Montana. Should a Small Miners Exclusion be determined as the best method of moving into test mining and/or development, these studies may be minimal, as long as the terms of a Small Miners Exclusion are followed. If this is the preferred option, the Company may initiate the studies to expand to a fully permitted underground operation. These steps have been discussed with State officials. A large number of studies were historically completed on the property under the supervision of Rauno Perttu. These included archaeological studies, threatened and endangered plants and animals reviews, water testing, an on-site weather station that operated for a year, soils studies, and wetlands studies. No impediments to production were historically found, however, the studies that would apply to a new underground mine would have to be updated.
The Company intends to finance the exploration and development projects by raising capital in both the debt and equity markets, and there is no assurance that such funding initiatives will be successful.
Most of the historic assaying at Basin Gulch was completed by Mount Powell Laboratories out of nearby Deer Lodge Montana. Wayne Olmstead, who taught assaying procedures at nearby Montana Tech in Butte, MT, ran the lab. While he ran frequent check assays, we also crosschecked numerous pulps with several other bigger labs. Companies such as Echo Bay and Kinross also re-assayed our pulps, and took their own samples. All the checks were within margins of normal variability. The reverse circulation samples were split using a splitter and bagged on site. They were loaded and trucked daily to a pickup point for Mount Powell, who then hauled them daily to the laboratory.
The entire footage of all the Basin Gulch drill holes was divided into five-foot sample intervals and the entire drill footage was assayed.
Core drilling was begun by an experienced licensed mining engineer, Bill Hansen, who will supervise sawing of the core into two halves using his employee and a Company-owned saw. The core has divided into five-foot samples where there is no obvious formation/mineralization boundary. Samples were stopped at obvious geological breaks. Each five-foot or less interval will be prepared and assayed by ALS Chemex. Because of coarse gold at Basin Gulch, select intervals of the pulp will be additionally bulk-tested for coarse gold. While the 2011 program was cut short, the Company believes that the results of the program, when combined with the planned 2012 bulk sampling will confirm the previous coarse gold.
All normal procedures to protect and preserve the samples will be taken. Mr. Perttu and Mr. Hansen have a combined 70 years, plus experience in these procedures. The Company uses industry established “Best Practices” in its Quality Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) protocol. These procedures govern our sample collection and preparation, assay controls, sample custody, assay precision and accuracy procedures and protocols.
Montana DEQ has primacy at the Basin Gulch project. In addition, the drilling at Basin Gulch is on private land. Because a segment of the access road crossed Forest Service land, we needed a snow removal permit from the Forest Service, which has been obtained. A bond was placed and the Montana DEQ granted a permit before work started. Rauno Perttu, whose career as an economic geologist has spanned some forty years, supervises all of the work on this project. A copy of Mr. Perttu’s CV is available at www.DutchGold.com. Mr. Bill Hansen, a mining engineer with some thirty years of experience. Mr. Hansen has extensive experience on the property being drilled by his firm at Basin Gulch.
Permitting Status:
The Company had received a drilling permit in February of 2011 and has posted the requisite bond. New exploration permits were applied for by DGRI and the previous extensive permitting process in the 1990s helped to streamline new permits. In addition, the previous studies were directed at an open-pit mine. Our new permitting will be directed at a low-impact underground mine, after sufficient high-grade material is blocked out to justify new studies and applications.
In Montana, public and private lands are handled similarly in the permitting process. DGRI must apply for either a blanket exploration permit for Montana, or a specific permit for the Basin Gulch project. In either case, proposed drill sites and trenches must be located on a map, with a detailed description of how the preparation and reclamation of each site will be completed. The State will then have the choice of sending out an inspector to review the proposed plan. The State will subsequently calculate the reclamation bond amount for the work proposed, based on existing State standards. Upon DGRI posting the bond, the Company may then proceed with the exploration work.
During work in the 1990s, none of the proposed exploration follow-up sites had any deleterious aspects that needed mitigating, so no significant obstacles to exploration are anticipated. Regarding anticipated test mining, this work can be conducted under Small Miner’s Exclusion (SME) provisions of the Montana permitting process. The SME process is much faster and simpler than the permitting process for larger mines in Montana, and can be completed within weeks of filing of an application. This property contains a large, open-ended gold and silver resource, select parts of which DGRI believes may be economically mineable under relatively rapid small mine regulations, with a very minimal footprint.
2011 Program Result
During the first quarter of 2011, Dutch drilled a 266-foot geological exploration hole in an area with no rock exposures approximately 2,000 feet from the edge of the defined mineralized area, to confirm the location of a known fault. The fault is believed to be important to controlling gold mineralization, and where intersected, by previous drilling at other locations, was always strongly mineralized. The hole did not reach the target fault, which appears to be further north than originally estimated.
During the second quarter, Dutch refocused its drilling to infill an area with known coarse gold, which appears to have been the source of much of the placer gold that was historically mined along the Basin Gulch drainage. This area is within one of the individual diatremes in the nested diatreme complex. Four shallow holes angled from two locations were completed. Ten more core holes from five additional locations are planned.
The historical holes that were drilled at the location during the 1990’s showed areas of consistently strong coarse gold, which weren’t identified until bulk testing of the drill cuttings was conducted. These historically defined areas of consistent coarse gold appear to follow predictable zones or structures.
Three of the four holes that were completed appeared to be confined within the diatreme vent, and above the boiling zone. The first two of these holes showed persistent low-grade gold and silver mineralization. The third of these holes averaged better than an ounce per ton silver, with low-grade gold mineralization from the surface to 82 feet, and again from 127 feet to the bottom of the hole at 150 feet. Dutch considers this continuous mineralization to be very encouraging for future drilling deeper into the boiling zone. Until bulk sampling of these holes is completed, the possibility remains that, as with the historic drill holes in the area, bulk testing may demonstrate potentially economic zones of coarse gold.
The fourth hole BG11-4C was drilled to a total depth of 203 feet. The hole was sited to pass through the side wall of one of the diatreme vents in the nested diatreme complex at an intercept angle of 60 degrees. The assay results are considered preliminary because bulk testing of BG11-4C remains to be completed.
The drill hole assayed consistent background values of a half ounce silver per ton, with persistent gold values of 0.0x per ton. The interval from 73 feet to 78 feet assayed 0.1 opt gold and 0.5 opt silver. The interval from 88 feet to 143 feet contained consistently stronger silver values, up to three ounces per ton. Re-assays of the zone at 150 feet showed 0.2 opt gold and 7 opt silver. The difference in the assays strongly suggests a nugget effect. The measurable gold and silver values persisted to the bottom of the hole. A nearby historic drill hole, BG97-24RC, contained 0.0x opt gold throughout its 400 foot length. Subsequent bulk testing of the historic hole’s drill cuttings discovered 0.15 opt gold from the surface to 10 feet, underlain by 0.378 opt gold from 10 to 20 feet, and 0.215 opt gold from 110 to 120 feet.
Dutch Gold believes that bulk testing of the BG11-4C core is likely to show similar zones of coarse gold concentration, because of its proximity to BG97-24RC, and because of the variation in gold content of paired assays in BG11-4C. The Company is intrigued to see the strong silver values over a broad cross-section of the vent wall. Dutch Gold believes, based on this hole and some historic holes, that the walls of this particular vent are silver-enriched and looks forward to getting bulk assay results from holes already drilled and from planned holes sited further into this vent. The majority of holes drilled into this vent had local high-grade intercepts, to over an ounce per ton.
Gold Bug Project
The following maps illustrate the general location of the Gold Bug Project in Oregon:
The Gold Bug mine is located in Josephine County, Oregon. The Gold Bug mine is on Whiskey creek in T. 33 S., R. 8 W. near Mount Reuben at elevations of 2400 to 2600 feet as measured by aneroid barometer. The old main adit is now completely blocked by fallen timbers at about 350 feet from the portal. The vein contained gold-bearing quartz with some pyrite and chalcopyrite. The vein was only 1 to 2 feet wide where seen, but even this was stoped out, and thicker vein quartz was reported farther in. The country rock of the old main adit is an andesite containing phenocrysts of plagioclase feldspar in a matrix of plagioclase, green biotite, isotropic chloritic material, and a little magnetite and epidote. The illustration is a copy of an old mine map showing a plan and a vertical section of the old workings.
The geology of Oregon gold locations in the southwestern part of the state is complex and not fully understood, being closely associated with plate tectonics and crustal subduction. Numerous gold-quartz veins can be found in greenstone of the Triassic age (248 - 208 million years ago), which trends in belts from the southwest to the northwest parts of Josephine County. Black slate, peridotite, and serpentine of Jurassic age sometimes contain gold-quartz veins and tend to parallel the greenstone belts. Granite, diorite, and gabbro intrusive bodies can be found in many parts of the county, but are generally devoid of mineralization except where they are in contact with older rocks.
The Gold Bug Mine produced 37,500 ounces. The production occurred primarily in the period between 1913 and 1942.
Dutch Mining, LLC owns the property in fee simple title. The project is accessible by county roads and BLM roads crisscross Mt. Rueben. There is little additional infrastructure. The Company has no plans to develop this property in the near future.
The Company owns certain idle, milling equipment at the Rendata Industrial Park in Grants Pass, Oregon. The equipment may be put back into operation with minimal capital expenditure.
The following graphic depicts the Gold Bug Project:
Item 3.