Item 2.
Properties
(a) Lodging
1. Rochester Hotels
Kahler's four hotels in Rochester, Minnesota with an aggregate of 1,325 guest rooms were founded in 1917 to provide for individuals visiting the Mayo Clinic in Rochester. The Mayo Clinic is an internationally known private group practice dedicated to providing diagnosis and treatment of patient illnesses through a systematic focus on individual needs. The Mayo Clinic also operates a medical school that provides advanced education and research programs. As a result of its operations in Rochester, the Mayo Clinic generates a strong demand for hotel accommodations by individual visitors seeking medical treatment and medical conferences organized by the Mayo Clinic. Kahler's hotels are connected to the Mayo Clinic facilities by skywalk and pedestrian subways. The level of demand created by the Mayo Clinic is such that the results of operations of the Rochester hotels are dependent upon the continued attractiveness of the Mayo Clinic to patients and medical conferences. In addition, Rochester is the principal development and manufacturing facility for IBM's Application Systems/400. Although the Company is the leading provider of hotel rooms in Rochester, its hotels compete with several other lodging facilities, including a 213 room full service Radisson Hotel and several other nationally franchised hotels.
The Kahler Hotel - Rochester, Minnesota
This 12 story full service hotel is located directly across from and is connected by pedestrian subways and skyways to the Mayo Clinic's facilities, Rochester Methodist Hospital and downtown shopping areas. In addition, the hotel has convenient access to IBM's Rochester facilities and is 10 minutes from the Rochester airport. The original portion of The Kahler Hotel was completed in 1921 with significant additions completed in 1954 (207) rooms and 1968 (121 rooms). The Kahler Hotel provides a total of 695 guest rooms and suites. The hotel has conference and banquet facilities with approximately 15,000 square feet of space arranged in 15 flexible meeting rooms. The top floor of the hotel has been remodeled to include a Presidential Suite and a Concierge club, which provides an executive lounge and complimentary continental breakfast and evening cocktails. The hotel has four restaurants, a lounge and room service. In addition the hotel has a swimming pool, exercise equipment and an indoor shopping arcade of 55 shops, including a pharmacy, car rental office, fashion boutiques and several novelty and specialty shops.
Kahler Plaza Hotel - Rochester, Minnesota
This luxury nine story hotel opened in March 1989. The hotel is accessible on three levels to the adjoining Harold W. Siebens Education Building of the Mayo Clinic, which includes the Clinic's medical meeting and education facilities. The hotel is also directly across from and connected by skyway and pedestrian subway to The Kahler Hotel. The Kahler Plaza Hotel offers 194 guest room and suite accommodations. In addition, the hotel has two floors of Concierge Club service, including complimentary continental breakfast and evening cocktails. The hotel has approximately 10,000 square feet of meeting and banquet space that can accommodate up to 400 persons. The hotel offers a restaurant and lounge, complete room service, as well as an indoor swimming pool, whirlpool, sauna and exercise room.
Clinic View Inn and Suites - Rochester, Minnesota
This nine story, 266 room moderately priced hotel is directly across the street and connected by pedestrian subway from Rochester Methodist Hospital and the Mayo Clinic's cancer and pain treatment center. The hotel was opened in 1974 and acquired by Kahler in 1980. In April 1991, a 128 suite addition was added to the facility to meet the market demand for the extended stay lodging by Mayo Clinic patients and business guests. During the construction of the suites, the existing hotel space was extensively renovated. The hotel offers guest rooms and suites. Each suite has a kitchen area, including a microwave oven, refrigerator, coffee maker and toaster, and a living room. The hotel offers a complimentary continental breakfast, restaurant, indoor swimming pool, whirlpool, sauna and exercise equipment, as well as laundry facilities and a convenience store. In addition, the hotel has conference facilities for up to 100 persons.
Holiday Inn Downtown - Rochester, Minnesota
The Holiday Inn Downtown was acquired and substantially renovated by Kahler in 1983. Various portions of the hotel have been renovated since 1989, including the lobby, guest rooms and restaurant. The hotel provides 170 moderately priced guest rooms and primarily serves visitors to the Mayo Clinic and individual business travelers. The hotel occupies floors two through eight of a 16 story multi-use condominium building and is located three blocks from the Mayo Clinic and one block from the Rochester Civic Center. The hotel is connected to the skyway system, which allows access to the Mayo facilities as well as retail shopping mall. The hotel offers an executive floor service, including complimentary continental breakfast and evening cocktails and computer- accessible phone lines, an informal restaurant, lounge and room service, a dinner theater, and conference and banquet facilities that can accommodate up to 200 persons. The hotel operates under a Holiday Inn franchise.
2. Intermountain Hotels
In the intermountain region, Kahler has interests in 10 hotels with 2,134 rooms in Utah, Idaho, Montana and Arizona. Five of these hotels, with 1,295 guest rooms are located in the greater Salt Lake City area, the largest number of hotels under common management in that area. The
Utah hotels provide extensive coverage of the primary business destinations in the region as well as access to the nine major ski areas surrounding Salt Lake City. In April 1987, Kahler entered the Salt Lake City market by purchasing the partially constructed University Park Hotel in Salt lake City. In mid-1988, Kahler acquired a 50.0% partnership interest in and management of the Salt Lake Hilton Hotel. In 1989, Kahler provided $3.2 million of second mortgage financing and assumed management of the Ogden Park Hotel in Ogden, Utah. Kahler purchased the Olympia Park Hotel and Conference Center in Park City, Utah in 1992. In 1993, Kahler acquired a 50.0% ownership interest and management contract in the Provo Park Hotel in Provo, Utah, the remaining 50.0% partnership interest in the Salt Lake City Hilton and a 63.8% general partnership interest in the Ogden Park Hotel. In Idaho, the Boise Park Suite Hotel was constructed in 1992, the Pocatello Park Hotel was purchased in March 1994 and the Canyon Springs Park Hotel was purchased in August 1995. The Sheraton San Marcos Golf Resort and Conference Center in Chandler, Arizona reopened in 1987 after a major renovation and the addition of 250 new guest rooms. Kahler had originally acquired a partnership interest and management contract in the property. In 1992, Kahler obtained full ownership of the property. On July 1, 1995 the Company acquired an ownership interest and management contract in the 150 room Best Western Copper King Park Hotel in Butte, Montana.
University Park Hotel - Salt Lake City, Utah
This seven story hotel is located in the University of Utah's Research Park on a 6.9 acre site, approximately 10 minutes from downtown Salt Lake City, 20 minutes from the airport, and near the University of Utah and its medical and research facilities. Seven major ski areas are less than a half hour drive from the hotel. The hotel provides 192 guest rooms and 28 executive suites. Each suite has a separate living room with a kitchen area, including a refrigerator. The hotel has a restaurant and lounge, an indoor swimming pool and fitness center, conference and banquet facilities, a gift shop and a liquor store. The hotel is owned by University Inn Associates, a Utah limited partnership. The hotel is located on a site leased under a land lease expiring in December 2025, with an option to extend the lease term for an additional 10 years.
Salt Lake Hilton Hotel - Salt Lake City, Utah
The hotel is located near downtown Salt Lake City on the main freeway access to downtown and is 10 minutes from the airport and 45 minutes to seven ski areas. The hotel offers 318 guest rooms and 33 suites. The hotel also offers 23,000 square feet of conference and meeting facilities that can accommodate up to 1,200 persons. In addition, the hotel provides executive concierge level service on two floors of the hotel and has three restaurants, a lounge, room service, an outdoor swimming pool, an indoor whirlpool area and a fitness center. The hotel operates under a Hilton franchise agreement.
The majority of the land under the hotel is leased pursuant to a ground lease that expires in March 2044. A portion of the parking area currently used by the hotel is leased on a month-to-month basis.
Best Western Ogden Park Hotel - Ogden, Utah
The hotel is located in downtown Ogden and provides convenient access to Hill Air Force Base, Weber State University and three ski areas. The hotel offers 288 guest rooms and suites. Separate living rooms with wet bars are provided in the suites. In addition, the hotel offers a complimentary breakfast buffet and executive club service, including free newspaper, concierge service and complimentary evening hors d'oeuvres. With over 16,000 square feet of conference space that can accommodate up to 1,000 persons, the hotel seeks to attract conferences and groups as well as individual travelers. The hotel has an informal restaurant, a lounge, room service, liquor store and gift shop, indoor swimming pool and fitness center. The hotel operates under a Best Western franchise agreement.
The hotel is owned by Ogden Hotel Associates, a Utah limited partnership ("Associates"). Kahler currently holds a 63.8% general partnership interest in Associates. Ogden Park Hotel Corporation, Inc., a wholly- owned subsidiary of Kahler, currently manages the hotel.
Olympia Park Hotel and Conference Center - Park City, Utah
The 204 room hotel is located five minutes from the Park City ski area and 10 minutes from the Deer Valley ski area and is approximately 30 minutes east of Salt Lake City. The hotel primarily serves ski and summer vacationers, as well as conferences and group meetings that use the hotel's 8,000 square feet of conference and banquet facilities. The hotel's amenities include an atrium, swimming pool, spa and sauna, plus a restaurant, coffee shop and gift shop.
Provo Park Hotel - Provo, Utah
The nine story hotel is located in downtown Provo near Brigham Young University and several major corporations including Novell, Micron Technology, and NuSkin International and is also 15 minutes from the Sundance ski area. The 232 room hotel has the largest meeting space in the Provo area with 10 meeting rooms that can accommodate up to 900 persons to serve groups and conventions. The hotel offers a restaurant, a club, room service, a gift shop and a business center, as well as an outdoor pool, exercise room and free parking. A substantial remodeling of the top three floors establishing a concierge level area for business travelers and the upgrading of all guest rooms as well as the restaurant and public areas was completed in March 1995.
The hotel is owned by Park Hotels L.C., a Utah Limited Liability Company (Park Hotels). Kahler currently holds a 50.0% ownership interest in Park Hotels. Provo of Rochester, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Kahler, currently manages the hotel.
Park Hotels has a loan commitment for $16 million from a local bank and a $1.0 million federal grant to construct an additional 96 suites and conference center with approximately 17,000 square feet of meeting space adjacent to the existing hotel. In addition, a portion of the loan proceeds will be used to construct a 114 all-suites Residence Inn by Marriott in Provo, Utah. The Company's Partner in this venture contributed land and cash valued at $1.2 million. The Company contributed $1.2 million in cash. Construction of the Residence Inn by
Marriott and the expansion of the hotel is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 1996 and early 1997, respectively.
Boise Park Suite Hotel - Boise, Idaho
This four story hotel, located in a downtown business park near the corporate headquarters of Morrison-Knudson, Boise Cascade, Micron Technology, Albertson's, Ore-Ida Foods and J. R. Simplot, was constructed by Kahler in 1992. The hotel has 130 suites that include a separate living room and kitchen facilities. Among the amenities offered by the hotel are an outdoor swimming pool, fitness center, limited food service and a business center, with computer and cellular phone rental, laser printing, secretarial, fax and copier service. In addition, the hotel provides meeting facilities that can accommodate up to 90 persons. The hotel primarily attracts business travelers, although the hotel attracts a number of leisure travelers on weekends at discounted room rates. The Company is constructing 108 suites and an additional 1,347 square feet of meeting space attached to the existing hotel which will open in February 1996.
Pocatello Park Quality Inn - Pocatello, Idaho
This hotel is located in Pocatello, next to Interstate 15, a major thoroughfare extending from Los Angeles, California to the Canadian border. Located on a 6.7 acre site, the hotel has 152 rooms, the second largest number of rooms in the area. The hotel also has conference facilities with 10,600 square feet of meeting space capable of accommodating up to 700 persons, the largest in the area. Amenities offered at the hotel include an indoor pool and reception area, a fitness center, two restaurants and a cocktail lounge.
Best Western Canyon Springs Park Hotel - Twin Falls, Idaho
This hotel is located just off of Interstate 84 near the campus of the College of Southern Idaho and the Snake River Recreation Area. The hotel has 112 rooms located on a 6.3 acre site. The hotel also has six meeting rooms with 8,494 square feet of meeting space which can accommodate up to 750 persons. Amenities at the hotel include an outdoor pool, a full service restaurant and a coffee shop. The hotel operates under a Best Western franchise agreement.
Best Western Copper King Park Hotel - Butte, Montana
Kahler currently holds a 32.9% partnership interest and management contract in this 150 room hotel. The hotel is located near Glacier and Yellowstone National Parks. The full-service hotel includes bridal and executive suites. The hotel offers a restaurant, sports bar, indoor pool, whirlpool, sauna, health club and a variety of meeting rooms including a grand ballroom which accommodates up to 1,200 people. The hotel also owns and operates the Copper Dome, a 20,000 square foot tennis facility adjacent to the hotel which is also used as exhibit space. The hotel operates under a Best Western franchise agreement.
Sheraton San Marcos Golf Resort and Conference Center - Chandler (Greater Phoenix), Arizona
This conference center and resort hotel is located approximately 18 miles southeast of the Phoenix airport. In 1987, Kahler invested approximately $20 million to restore and substantially rebuild this historic 75-year old resort. Among the amenities the resort provides are the oldest 18-hole championship golf course in Arizona, two heated swimming pools and a tennis complex, three restaurants, a lounge and room service. The resort also offers 16 conference rooms with 20,000 square feet of meeting space that can serve up to 600 persons. Each of the 295 guest rooms, suites and villas has a private patio or balcony. The resort seeks to attract business groups, as well as individual travelers. The resort is operated under an ITT Sheraton franchise agreement, except for 45 villas in three buildings located next to the golf course which are operated separately.
3. Other Hotels
The remaining hotels are located in various states in areas that have provided opportunities for the Company. Many of these properties enjoy competitive advantages in their markets due to the type of facilities provided and their proximity to institutions and attractions that generate substantial demand for hotel accommodations.
Euro-Suites Hotel - Morgantown, West Virginia
Kahler has a management contract for the operations of this property. The Euro-Suites Hotel is a 79 suite property located near the University of West Virginia campus and hospital complex. It is in a hub of major corporate and government offices and facilities. It has a 60 seat cocktail lounge, four conference rooms and an exercise facility.
Green Oaks Inn and Conference Center - Fort Worth, Texas
This 284 room hotel is located near the Southwest Regional Navy and Air Force Training Command and a Lockheed aircraft plant and is approximately 10 minutes from downtown Fort Worth and 25 minutes from the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport. With 16 conference rooms that can accommodate up to 1,000 persons, the hotel primarily seeks to attract conferences and group meetings as well as individual business travelers and visitors to the naval air station and Lockheed aircraft plant. Amenities at the hotel include two swimming pools, two tennis courts, an exercise room and access to an adjacent public golf course. The hotel leases its site pursuant to a ground lease that expires December 2014.
Kahler Park Hotel - Hibbing, Minnesota
Kahler currently holds a 25% partnership interest and management contract in this 125 room hotel. The Kahler Park Hotel has a full- service restaurant, indoor pool and recreation and meeting facilities. The lodging facility caters to the business and leisure traveler with a goal of becoming a meeting and social destination.
Knights Inn - Port Huron, Michigan
This 104 room hotel is a budget priced hotel located at the U.S.- Canadian border near Lake Huron. The hotel has an outdoor swimming pool and meeting facilities. The hotel is approximately nine years old and attracts primarily weekend and vacationing travelers and individual business travelers. The hotel operates under a Knights Inn franchise agreement.
Knights Inn - Racine, Wisconsin
This 107 room hotel is a budget priced hotel located between Milwaukee and Chicago, near Racine, Wisconsin and several beaches and marinas along Lake Michigan. The hotel is approximately seven years old and attracts primarily weekend and vacationing travelers as well as business travelers. The hotel operates under a Knights Inn franchise agreement.
Lakeview Resort and Conference Center - Morgantown, West Virginia
The resort is a full service conference center with resort amenities, including two 18-hole championship golf courses and a fitness and sports center with an indoor swimming pool, tennis courts, weight training and equipment and running track, as well as boating on Cheat Lake and hiking trails. In addition, the resort offers two restaurants. The resort is located near Morgantown, West Virginia and is 75 miles south of Pittsburgh. With conference facilities that can accommodate up to 600 persons, the resort seeks to attract business groups from Pittsburgh and surrounding areas, as well as visitors to the University of West Virginia and vacationing golfers. The resort has 187 guest rooms and 72 two-bedroom condominium units.
Quality Hotel Plaza One - Rock Island, Illinois
Kahler currently holds a 26.6% ownership interest and management contract on this hotel. Plaza One has a scenic location that offers an overlook of the Mississippi River. The 175 room full-service hotel recently underwent a $4 million renovation making it a prime location for corporate travel, group meetings and social events. The hotel features 3 dining rooms, a bar and meeting rooms to accommodate groups up to 500 people.
Best Western Red Fox Inn - Waverly, Iowa
Kahler has a management contract for the operation of this property. The Red Fox Inn is a 127 room full service property. The hotel offers two dining rooms, two lounges, 12 meeting rooms, an indoor swimming pool, whirlpool area and an exercise room.
(b) Formal Wear
Anderson's Formal Wear of Rochester - Rochester, Minnesota
Anderson's Formal Wear of Rochester is a distribution center of formal wear for the upper Midwest geographic area. The warehouse facility has approximately 16,152 square feet. In addition to providing wholesale
rentals to numerous retail dealers, the center is a supplier to 16 of the Company's retail outlets.
Anderson's Formal Wear of Denver - Denver, Colorado
Anderson's Formal Wear of Denver is a distribution center of formal wear for the western geographic area. The warehouse facility has approximately 14,877 square feet. In addition to providing wholesale rentals to numerous retail dealers, the center is a supplier to seven of the Company's retail outlets.
Anderson's Formal Wear of Dallas - Dallas, Texas
Anderson's Formal Wear of Dallas is a distribution center of formal wear for the south central geographic area. The warehouse facility has approximately 14,008 square feet. In addition to providing wholesale rentals to numerous retail dealers, the center is a supplier to 11 of the Company's retail outlets.
Anderson's Formal Wear of Kansas - Kansas City, Kansas
Anderson's Formal Wear of Kansas is a distribution center of formal wear for the central Midwest geographic area. The warehouse facility has approximately 15,600 square feet. In addition to providing wholesale rentals to numerous retail dealers, the center is a supplier to five of the Company's retail outlets.
(c) Textile Care Services
Textile Care Services - Rochester, Minnesota
The laundry facility in Rochester, Minnesota provides commercial and institutional laundry and dry cleaning services as well as linen and uniform rental services. This operation provides cleaning and rental services to all of Kahler's hotels in Rochester. In 1992, Textile Care Services entered into a 20 year exclusive Service Agreement to provide laundry services to the Mayo Clinic and Methodist and St. Marys Hospitals in Rochester and opened a $13 million state-of-the-art commercial laundry in Rochester in April 1993.
Textile Care Services - Salt Lake City, Utah
In the greater Salt Lake City area, Textile Care Services provides laundry services for three of Kahler's Salt Lake City hotels as well as for other hotels, hospitals and other institutional customers.
Item 3.