ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
The Location and Type of the Company's Properties
The Company's 54 Properties are diversified by type (office, industrial, retail, multifamily and hotel) and are located in four geographic regions and 17 states within the United States comprising numerous local markets. The following table sets forth the location, type and size of the Properties (by rentable square feet and/or units) along with average occupancy for the year ended December 31, 1996.
For the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994, rental revenue from the two Properties leased to Navistar International contributed approximately 10% of the combined total rental revenue of the GRT Predecessor Entities. For the year ended December 31, 1996, no tenant contributed 10% or more of the rental revenue of the Company. A complete listing of Properties owned by the Company at December 31, 1996 is included as part of Schedule III in Item 14.
Office Properties
The Company owns eleven office Properties with total rentable square footage of 641,923. The leases for the office Properties have terms ranging from one to ten years. The office leases generally require the tenant to reimburse the Company for increases in building operating costs over a base amount. Many of the leases provide for rent increases that are either fixed or based on a consumer price index ("CPI"). As of December 31, 1996, the office Properties were approximately 93% leased.
The following table sets forth, for the periods specified, the total rentable area, aggregate average occupancy, average effective base rent per leased square foot and total effective annual base rent.
OFFICE PROPERTIES HISTORICAL RENT AND OCCUPANCY
(1) Total Effective Annual Base Rent divided by average occupancy in square feet. As used herein, "Effective Base Rent" represents base rent less concessions. (2) Total Effective Annual Base Rent adjusted for any free rent given for the period.
The following table sets forth the contractual lease expirations for leases for the office Properties as of December 31, 1996.
OFFICE PROPERTIES LEASE EXPIRATIONS
(1) Annual base rent expiring during each period, divided by total annual base rent (both adjusted for contractual increases). (2) This figure is based on square footage actually leased (which excludes vacant space), which accounts for the difference between this figure and "Total Rentable Area" in the preceding table (which includes vacant space). (3) This figure is based on square footage actually leased and incorporates contractual rent increases arising after 1996, and thus differs from "Total Effective Annual Base Rent" in the preceding table, which is based on 1996 rents. (4) Includes leases that have initial terms of less than one year.
Industrial Properties
The Company owns 14 industrial Properties aggregating 2,026,368 square feet. During June 1996, the Company sold two other industrial properties, which had 97,200 square feet. The industrial Properties are designed for warehouse, distribution and light manufacturing, ranging in size from 37,200 square feet to 474,426 square feet. As of December 31, 1996, seven of the industrial Properties were leased to multiple tenants, seven were leased to single tenants, and all seven of the single-tenant Properties are adaptable in design to multi-tenant use. As of December 31, 1996, the warehouse Properties were approximately 99% leased.
Four of the single-tenant Properties have eight years remaining on leases whose original terms were 20 years and include rent increases every three years based on all or a percentage of the change in the CPI. Under these leases the tenants are required to pay for all of the Properties' operating costs, such as common area maintenance, property taxes, insurance, and all repairs including structural repairs. These four Properties are leased to Navistar International Transportation Corporation ("Navistar"), but two of the leases have been assumed by Case Equipment Corporation ("Case"). Navistar has options under its leases to purchase either or both of the Properties on March 1, 1999, and 2002. The option price is equal to the lesser of (i) the greater of the appraised value or a specified option floor price; or (ii) a price derived by
applying a specified capitalization rate to a specified rental amount. The Case leases give the tenant a purchase option exercisable on March 1, 1999, and 2002 for an amount equal to the greater of the appraised value or a specified minimum price. Management believes, based on discussions with both tenants, that neither tenant has any present intention to exercise any option to purchase.
The remaining warehouse Properties have leases whose terms range from one to eight years. Most of the leases are "triple net" leases whereby the tenants are required to pay their pro rata share of the Properties' operating costs, common area maintenance, property taxes, insurance, and non-structural repairs. Some of the leases are "industrial gross" leases whereby the tenant pays as additional rent its pro rata share of common area maintenance and repair costs and its share of the increase in taxes and insurance over a specified base year cost. Many of these leases call for fixed or CPI-based rent increases.
The Company holds fee title to all of the industrial Properties except a 41,657 square-foot warehouse facility in Seattle known as Sea Tac II. This property is owned by a partnership managed by one of the Associated Companies. The Company holds a participating first mortgage interest in Sea Tac II. In accordance with GAAP, the Company accounts for the property as though it held fee title, as substantially all risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Company as a result of the terms of the mortgage.
The following table sets forth, for the periods specified, the total rentable area, aggregate average occupancy, average effective base rent per leased square foot and total effective annual base rent for the Industrial Properties.
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES HISTORICAL RENT AND OCCUPANCY
(1) Total Effective Annual Base Rent divided by average occupancy in square feet. (2) Total Effective Annual Base Rent adjusted for any free rent given for the period. (3) Includes the TRP Properties. For these Properties, occupancy rates are presented as of December 31, 1996, and base rents are presented on an annualized basis based on results since the acquisition as this information is not available for the year ended December 31, 1996.
The following table sets forth the contractual lease expirations for leases for the industrial Properties as of December 31, 1996.
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES LEASE EXPIRATIONS
(1) Annual base rent expiring during each period, divided by total annual base rent (both adjusted for contractual increases). (2) This figure is based on square footage actually leased (which excludes vacant space), which accounts for the difference between this figure and "Total Rentable Area" in the preceding table (which includes vacant space). (3) This figure is based on square footage actually leased (which excludes vacant space) and incorporates contractual rent increases arising after 1996, and thus differs from "Total Effective Annual Base Rent" in the preceding table, which is based on 1996 rents. (4) Includes leases that have initial terms of less than one year.
Retail Properties
The retail portfolio consists of 21 Properties with a total of 630,700 square feet. As of December 31, 1996, the occupancy of the retail Properties was 97%. Five of the retail Properties, representing 543,950 square feet or 86% of the total rentable area, are anchored community shopping centers. The anchor tenants of these centers are national or regional supermarkets and drug stores.
Ten of the retail Properties are leased to QuikTrip Corporation on long-term leases expiring after 2008. QuikTrip is a regional convenience store operator with over 300 stores in six states. The leases require the tenant to pay for all Property costs and provide for periodic fixed increases of base rent. Under such leases, the tenant has one five-year option to renew at specified rental rates.
Six of the retail Properties are located in the Atlanta metropolitan area and are leased to tenants in the automotive care industry.
The leases for the retail Properties (excluding the above described QuikTrip leases) generally include fixed or CPI-based rent increases and some include provisions for the payment of additional rent based on a percentage of the tenants' gross sales that exceed specified amounts. Retail tenants also typically pay as additional rent their pro rata share of the Properties' operating costs including common area maintenance, property taxes, insurance and non-structural repairs. Some leases contain options to renew at market rates or specified rates.
The Company holds fee title to all of the retail Properties except the Park Center community center. Park Center is owned by a partnership managed by one of the Associated Companies. The Company holds a participating first mortgage interest in Park Center. In accordance with GAAP, the Company accounts for Park Center as though it held fee title, as substantially all risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Company as a result of the terms of the mortgage.
The following table sets forth, for the periods specified, the total rentable area, aggregate average occupancy, average effective base rent per leased square foot and total effective annual base rent for the retail properties.
RETAIL PROPERTIES HISTORICAL RENT AND OCCUPANCY
(1) Total Effective Annual Base Rent divided by average occupancy in square feet. (2) Total Effective Annual Base Rent adjusted for any free rent given for the period. (3) Includes the Carlsberg Properties and the TRP Properties. For these Properties, occupancy rates are presented as of December 31, 1996, and base rents are presented on an annualized basis based on results since the acquisition as this information is not available for the year ended December 31, 1996. (4) Average effective base rent per leased square foot declined in 1996 due to the acquisition of properties with lower base rents.
The following table sets forth the contractual lease expirations for the retail Properties as of December 31, 1996.
RETAIL PROPERTIES LEASE EXPIRATIONS
(1) Annual base rent expiring during each period, divided by total annual base rent (both adjusted for contractual increases). (2) This figure is based on square footage actually leased (which excludes vacant space), which accounts for the difference between this figure and "Total Rentable Area" in the preceding table (which includes vacant space). (3) This figure is based on square footage actually leased (which excludes vacant space) and incorporates contractual rent increases arising after 1996, and thus differs from "Total Effective Annual Base Rent" in the preceding table which is based on 1996 rents. (4) Includes leases that have initial terms of less than one year.
Tenant Improvements and Leasing Commissions
The following table summarizes by year the capitalized tenant improvement and leasing commission expenditures incurred in the renewal or re-leasing of previously occupied space since January 1, 1992.
CAPITALIZED TENANT IMPROVEMENTS AND LEASING COMMISSIONS
(1) The significant increase in capitalized tenant improvements and commissions in 1995 over the previous year is primarily the result of re-leasing 15,491 sq. ft. at Regency Westpointe. The re-lease is for a term of ten years. There were no commissions paid in this transaction. Tenant improvements totaled $405,000. This tenant occupies 43% of Regency Westpointe. (2) The significant increase in capitalized tenant improvements and commissions in 1996 over the previous years is primarily the result of tenant improvements provided in connection with a lease extension of space for the principal tenant of the UCT Property. The lease was extended 10 years and expires in 2010.
Multifamily Properties
The Company owns three multi-family Properties, aggregating 642 units, and 542,710 square feet of space. All of the units are rented to residential tenants on either a month-to-month basis or for terms of one year or less. As of December 31, 1996, the multifamily properties were approximately 95% leased.
The following table sets forth, for the periods specified, total units, average occupancy, monthly average effective base rent per unit and total effective annual base rent for the multifamily Properties.
MULTIFAMILY PROPERTIES HISTORICAL RENT AND OCCUPANCY
(1) Total Effective Annual Base Rent divided by average occupied unit. (2) Total Effective Annual Base Rent adjusted for any free rent given for the period. (3) Includes the TRP Properties. For these Properties, occupancy rates are presented as of December 31, 1996, and base rents are presented on an annualized basis based on results since the acquisition as this information is not available for the year ended December 31, 1996. (4) Average effective monthly base rent per unit declined in 1996 due to the acquisition of properties with lower base rents.
Hotels
Overview. The Hotel portfolio consists of five hotels (the "Hotels," and each a "Hotel") ranging from 64 to 157 rooms each. Four of the Hotels are all-suite Hotels which consist primarily of one-bedroom suites, but each also includes some studio suites and two-bedroom suites. All of the Hotels are currently operating under license agreements with Country Lodging by Carlson, Inc. The four all-suite Hotels are marketed as Country Suites by Carlson ("Country Suites") and the fifth Hotel is marketed as Country Inns and Suites by Carlson. Country Lodging is part of the Carlson Companies, based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Carlson Companies own, operate and franchise Radisson Hotels, TGI Friday's Restaurants, Country Kitchen Restaurants and the Carlson Travel Agency Network. Currently there are a total of more than 85 Country Inns and Suites, with 30 additional under construction.
The Company holds fee title to four of the five Hotels. The fifth Hotel, the Country Suites in Irving, Texas is owned by a partnership managed by one of the Associated Companies. The Company holds a participating first mortgage interest in the Property. In accordance with GAAP, the Company accounts for the Property as though it holds fee title, as substantially all risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the Company as a result of the terms of the mortgage. The hotels owned in fee title are currently leased to GHG (see "The Percentage Leases," discussed below). The Irving, Texas hotel is managed by GHG under terms of a pre-existing contract.
The following table contains, for the periods indicated, occupancy, average daily rate ("ADR") and revenue per available room ("REVPAR") information for the Company's Hotels as well as comparative information for all U.S. Hotels and all Country Lodging hotels.
(1) Source: Smith Travel Research and Country Hospitality. (2) Source: Country Hospitality. Data for all years is limited to U.S. properties. (3) The San Antonio Hotel opened in 1995. (4) Information supplied for historical comparison only as this hotel was not acquired by the Company until August 1996. Source: Unaudited operating statements provided by previous owner of the hotel. (5) Information represents a full year of operations including operations prior to the Company's acquisition of the hotel in August 1996.
THE PERCENTAGE LEASES
In order for the Company to qualify as a REIT, neither the Company nor the Operating Partnership can operate the Hotels. Therefore, the Operating Partnership has leased four of the Hotels to GHG each for a term of five years pursuant to percentage leases ("Percentage Leases"), which provide for rent equal to the greater of the Base Rent (as defined in the Percentage Leases) or a specified percentage of room revenues (the "Percentage Rent"). Each Hotel is separately leased to GHG. GHG's ability to make rent payments will, to a large degree, depend on its ability to generate cash flow from the operations of the Hotels. Each Percentage Lease contains the provisions described below.
Each Percentage Lease has a non-cancelable term of five years, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Percentage Lease. The lessee under the Percentage Lease has one five-year renewal option at the then current fair market rent.
During the term of each Percentage Lease, the lessee is obligated to pay the greater of Base Rent or Percentage Rent. Base Rent accrues and is required to be paid monthly in advance. Percentage Rent is calculated by multiplying fixed percentages by room revenues for each of the four Hotels owned by the Company. The applicable percentage changes when revenue exceeds a specified threshold, and the threshold may be adjusted annually in accordance with changes in the applicable CPI. Percentage Rent accrues and is due quarterly.
The table below sets forth the annual Base Rent and the Percentage Rent formulas for each of the four Hotels owned by the Company.
(1) Hotel was acquired in August 1996, therefore, rent incurred for the year ended December 31, 1996 was less than a full year's rent.
Other than real estate and personal property taxes, casualty insurance, a fixed capital improvement allowance and maintenance of underground utilities and structural elements, which are the responsibility of the Company, the Percentage Leases require the lessee to pay rent, insurance, salaries, utilities and all other operating costs incurred in the operation of the Hotels.
Under the Percentage Leases, the Company is required to maintain the underground utilities and the structural elements of the improvements, including exterior walls (excluding plate glass) and roof. In addition, the Company must fund periodic capital improvements to the buildings and grounds, and the periodic repair, replacement and refurbishment of furniture, fixtures and equipment, up to the following amounts per quarter for the first year of the Percentage Lease: Arlington-$25,000; Ontario-$22,750, Tucson-$28,500, and San Antonio-$10,500. These amounts increase annually in accordance with the CPI. These obligations carry forward to the extent not expended, and any unexpended amounts will remain the property of the Company upon termination of the Percentage Leases. Except for capital improvements and maintenance of structural elements and underground utilities, GHG will be required, at its expense, to maintain the Hotels in good order and repair, except for ordinary wear and tear, and to make non-structural, foreseen and unforeseen, and ordinary and extraordinary, repairs which may be necessary and appropriate to keep the Hotels in good order and repair. GHG will not be permitted to sublet all or any part of the Hotels or to assign its interest under any of the Percentage Leases, other than to an affiliate, without the prior written consent of the Company. No assignment or subletting will release GHG from any of its obligations under the Percentage Leases.
If the Company enters into an agreement to sell or otherwise transfer a Hotel, the Company has the right to terminate the Percentage Lease with respect to such Hotel upon paying GHG the fair market value of its leasehold interest in the remaining term of the Percentage Lease to be terminated.
GHG is the licensee under the franchise licenses on the Hotels. The franchise agreements are assignable to the Company, another lessee, or a new owner, with a payment of $2,500 per Hotel.
Mortgage Loans Receivable
Although the Company does not intend to engage in the business of making real estate loans, the Company holds three notes receivable, secured by first priority real property liens, which had a total outstanding principal balance of $10,678,000 and a net carrying value of $9,905,000 at December 31, 1996. The financial statement carrying value of the Hovpark loan at December 31, 1996 is $6,700,000, the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. Effective February 1, 1997, as a result of repayment of principal by the borrower, the principal balance of this loan was reduced to $500,000 and the maturity was extended to February 1, 2009. As of February 28, 1997, all payments are current. In connection with the Grunow loan, the Company entered into an Option Agreement which provides the Operating Partnership the option to purchase the Grunow Medical building based upon an agreed upon formula. See Note 6 in Item 14 for further discussion. The following table summarizes these three mortgages.
SUMMARY OF MORTGAGE LOANS RECEIVABLE
(1) This loan is currently secured by a pledge of partnership interests in the borrower.
ITEM 3.