ITEM 2. MINERAL PROPERTIES
CHILEAN PROPERTIES
Mocha Copper Porphyry
The prospect was submitted in early 1997 to the Company through one of the directors of the Company and a field exam was made by personnel working in Argentina at the time. The decision to begin to acquire and unitize the Mocha District was based on a number of factors. More than 50% of a known large porphyry system at Mocha is covered by Tertiary gravels and ignimbrites (post-mineral cover). The best grade primary and oxide copper, noted from surface sampling and drilling, is on the west side of the prospect just before going under the post-mineral cover. On average, the cover is believed to be less than 200 meters in thickness. A large north-south trending aero-magnetic low anomaly west of Mocha has never been tested by exploratory drilling. These anomalies are often indicative of major copper porphyry systems.
Since 1995, several junior and major mining companies have held positions and attempted unsuccessfully to make a deal on the claim group held by the Escala family of Santiago, Chile. In April 1997, the Oregon and Chilean Exploration Mining Company, staked 95 "pedimentos" or exploration claims totaling 28,300 hectares and surrounding the known Mocha District claims of the Escala Family and Conoco Minerals, and including the large aeromagnetic low 5-7 kilometers west of Mocha.
The Company has been successful at consolidating the District. Agreements were signed on June 23, 1997 and July 31, 1997 between Company and the Escala and Oregon LTDA properties. Negotiations also underway for the Conoco Minerals claims which are of lesser importance. Approximately US$75,000 has been spent in land payments. An additional US$75,000 has been spent in claim, legal fees, and geologic studies. The entire and total purchase amount of the Escala property is US$5,000,000 as follows:
On signing US$ 50,000 6 months US$ 100,000 12 months US$ 160,000 18 months US$ 300,000 24 months US$ 300,000 30 months US$ 500,000 36 months US$ 800,000 48 months US$1,395,000 60 months US$1,395,000
Notwithstanding the preceding, should the Company exercise the option to purchase within the terms of 48 months from the date of the option to purchase contract, the price of said contract shall amount to US$4,510,000 of which the unpaid balance shall be due in full at such time. In addition to the purchase price stated herein above, the Company will pay annually to the Sellers in equal parts an amount equal to 2% of the net smelter return obtained by the beneficiary or its cessionary as a result of the exploitation of any of the properties which are acquired. The parties agree to negotiate, in good faith, an amount for the N.S.R. buy-out which will become an integral part of the option to purchase contract.
Under the terms of the agreement with the Oregon, LTDA, which was signed on July 31, 1997, the Company can acquire a 100% interest in the 28,300 hectare claim block according to the following schedule:
On signing US$ 25,000 3 months US$ 25,000 6 months US$ 25,000 9 months US$ 25,000 12 months US$ 25,000 15 months US$ 25,000 18 months US$ 25,000 21 months US$ 25,000 36 months US$ 156,000 60 months US$ 500,000 72 months US$1,000,000 84 months US$1,000,000 96 months US$1,500,000
The Company is further obligated to spend $200,000 in work commitments in the first three years.
Location and Access
The Mocha District is located in northern Chile and lies on the 19E48'30" south meridian at 69E16'30" west. This area is within Region I of Chile, Province, Comuna de Huara. The prospect is approximately 100 kilometers east-northeast of the coastal city of Iquique and 60 kilometers west of the Bolivian border. Access is by paved and gravel roads which requires about three hours to drive from Iquique via Huara. The property lies along a southwesterly trending intermittent stream, Tarapaca, at an average elevation of 2300 meters. The farming pueblo of Mocha is located near the northeastern corner of the property.
History of the Prospect
Prospect pits, shallow shafts, and small adits were driven into the oxide copper showings at Mocha many years ago, probably pre-1940. The first systematic exploration for porphyry-type mineralization was carried out by the United Nations special fund mineral survey in late 1961 and 1962 and included geologic mapping, soil sampling, and six shallow diamond drill holes.
Conoco Minerals, Inc., optioned the prospect in late 1980 and in 1981 conducted geology, geochemistry, and geophysics culminating in core holes totaling nearly 5000 meters and three rotary holes totaling approximately 850 meters. The United Nations and Conoco core drilling activities outlined a mineralized resource of excess of two hundred million tons with an overall grade of 0.4%-0.6% copper as a mixture of primary sulfides, secondary sulfides, and oxides. Conoco personnel recognized the importance of intense biotization hosting the primary sulfides.
ASARCO optioned the property in 1995 and drilled thirty-three shallow RVC (reverse circulation) angle holes within the previously drilled and exposed area with the hope of increasing the secondary-enriched copper resource. ASARCO was only able to delineate a secondary enriched global resource approximately 41.9 million tons of .51% copper. Some problems may have been encountered with ASARCO'S drilling as assay results were lower than assays in adjacent core. No attempt was made by ASARCO to discover higher grade primary sulfides, oxide copper, or explore the vast covered area to the west.
Geology
The Mocha District is located within and on the west side of a 30-40 kilometer (19.25 mile) wide, north-south trending up-thrown block of Mesozoic and Paleozoic rocks. This structural block extends at least 500 km to the south and includes the El Abra and Chuquicamata Districts. The block was uplifted in later Tertiary time offsetting Tertiary gravels and ignimbrites believed to be 10-15 million years in age. A major north-south fault zone locally known as the West Fissure occupies an axial position within the Mesozoic-Paleozoic block.
The West Fissure is believed to have had a major component of net left lateral displacement since Mesozoic time. The West Fissure, fails to displace a 4.3 million year ignimbrite near Quebrada Blanca, and therefore has been inactive since that time. Spatial regional relationships suggest that the West Fissure, or its ancestral equivalent, influenced the localization of the porphyry copper deposits not only in the El Abra-Chuquicamata-Tesoro region, but also the cluster of deposits in the Copaquiri-Quebrada Blanca-Collahuasi region. The West Fissure is covered by gravels north of Copaquiri but also may correspond to northerly trending structural zones near Cerro Colorado and Mocha. The West Fissure also extends for several hundred kilometers to the south of Chuquicamata. Therefore, the location of several distinct regional clusters of porphyry copper deposits appear to have been influenced by this important fault zone extending over a strike length of at least 500 km (310 miles).
In recent years, a more subtle east-west structural component has also been recognized in several of the important porphyry copper districts along the West Fissure trend. In the Copaquiri-Quebrada-Collahuasi, Cerro Colorado, and Mocha Districts, the overall trend of copper mineralization and/or the alignment of known prospects appears to be at least in part east-west and partially offset by north-south faults. The east-west controlling structure at Mocha may extend as far to the east as the famous Potosi district in Bolivia.
Exploration Potential
The drilling programs in 1961 (United Nations), 1981 (Conoco), and 1995 (ASARCO), demonstrated that a large sulfide copper resource (250,000,000 tons) of overall grade between 0.4% - 0.6% copper exists mostly within intensive biotized rocks in the exposed portion of the Mocha District.
A preliminary examination of existing data and subsequent field work by the Company indicates that this large resource is only partially exposed. The overall trend of better copper grades (above 0.4% Cu) appears to be 700 meters wide, trending east-west, with better values of oxide and primary sulfides to the west, and heading under post-mineral cover. A separate and distinct secondary sulfide zone is also possible to the west, as is additional oxide copper. Also, a large north-south trending aero-magnetic low is present on the prospect, seven (7) kilometers west of Mocha. This anomaly could represent another porphyry system or possibly a faulted extension of Mocha.
A ground magnetic survey is recommended to further delineate this anomaly. Additional geophysics, including gravity to help estimate the thickness of the overburden, could be useful. An IP survey could aid in delineating the extent of sulfides under the post-mineral cover. However, even without geophysics at Mocha, a good drilling target exists immediately west of the known porphyry-type mineralization.
The Company's geologists believe that the potential exists for the discovery of a deposit in excess of 750 million tons at grades exceeding 0.5% copper. This estimate is based on known data and extrapolation of the size of the potential zone to the west and to depth. This estimate is also in line with other major copper deposits in Chile and to the south of Mocha within the same trend.
Subsequent to the end of the fiscal year end, on October 27, 1997 the Company signed a letter of intent with Teck Corporation of Vancouver, British Columbia for a joint venture to explore and develop the Mocha property. Although the final terms and conditions will be more fully described in a final agreement which has not yet been completed, the joint venture will involve an initial drilling phase to be funded by Teck, followed by a series of staged investments by Teck into the Company with 85% of the funds being used by the Company to fund exploration at Mocha, followed by an earn-in to 60% by Teck for funding all costs through bankable feasibility.
MEXICAN PROPERTIES
The Company has acquired four formerly producing mines; the Frazadas, Zopilote, Jabalina and Frazadas located in the El Zopilote District, Nayarit, Mexico. The Company acquired the property from Roberto Whetton, the owner of the previous operator of the mines, Minera Nival. Under the terms of the acquisition the Company will spend a minimum of $250,000 annually on exploration and/or development until the mines are brought back into production. The Company will then pay a 10% net profits royalty to Minera Nival to a maximum of $5,000,000.
The Manantial Project consists of four concessions which total 458 hectares and is located 25 kilometers east of Ruiz, Nayarit, Mexico. Ruiz is 200 kilometers south of Mazatlan and 150 kilometers north of Puerto Vallarta. Tepic, the capital of Nayarit, is 65 kilometers south of Ruiz.
Mining by the Indians pre-dates Spanish colonization. The Spanish mined the area and developed a port at San Blas in conjunction with their operation. A German company operated the mines and a smelter from 1890 to 1910 when they shutdown due to the Mexican Revolution. Production records indicate the Germans were mining high grade silver ores grading 1.5 kilograms silver per tonne (about 45 ounces) and an undisclosed amount of gold.
The mines are developed on silver, lead and zinc veins in andesite volcanic rocks and which are named the Manantial, Zopilote, Jabalina and Frazadas veins. The Minera Nival data indicate that reserves sufficient to operate a profitable mining operation can be developed by further exploration. The Company is now conducting an exploration drilling program to develop the necessary reserves to re-open the mines.
The Frazadas vein was being mined by Minera Nival and is developed on two levels, with 100 meters between levels. The vein averages 3 meters in width and grades 14% zinc, 2% lead, and 3-5 ounces silver per ton. The vein extends for a known strike of 400 meters and is open on dip and on strike. The vein width and continuity make the vein amenable to high productivity mechanized mining methods.
The Zopilote vein is southwest of and sub-parallel to the Frazadas. The mine workings consist of a 160 meter deep shaft with several levels developed, the extent of which are unknown. The German company records indicate that high grade silver with some lead and zinc were mined, and it appears that most of the early district production came from the Zopilote. The Zopilote mine is inaccessible at this time and Minera Nival did no work on the vein.
The Jabalina mine consists of a long drift developed on the strike projection of the Zopilote vein. The workings are 300 meters vertically below the Zopilote and terminate 600 meters from the down dip projection of the Zopilote. The Germans were driving a drift to develop the vein at a lower elevation, but never reached their target.
They did mine on at least two other different veins within this trend. While conducting exploration from the Jabalina tunnel, Minera Nival sampled a one meter vein that assayed 0.19 ounces gold and 19.3 ounce silver per ton. The Company believes that reserves can be developed by extending the Jabalina drift 600 meters to the dip projection of the Zopilote and evaluating this 300 by 600 meter block of ground by drilling and raising. The Company also believes other targets may be of interest within the Jabalina mine.
The Manantial vein consists of at least five veins averaging 1.5 meters in width and grading 13 to 20 ounces silver per ton with a good gold credit. The mine is developed on two levels and is developed by crosscuts from the surface. The mine is a complex of sub-veins of varying strike and dip averaging 50 meters in length. Minera Nival drilling indicates zones between the veins contain disseminated and stock-work mineralization. The Manantial vein system will be explored by drilling to determine if it is a stockwork vein system and its potential.
In October 1997, the Company began a drilling program of the project. Phase I of the drilling program consisted of drilling 5,000 feet of diamond core hole to test the downward projection of the Frazadas vein. The Company has completed 80% of this program and is now awaiting assay results. Upon receipt of results the Company will evaluate them and geologists will recommend a further drilling program, probably of about 8,000 feet of drilling if warranted. Phase II, if executed, will consist of further drilling of the Frazadas and drilling to test the Zopilote, Manantial, and Jabalina targets.
The Company has utilized its own Hagby 1,000 drill and drill crews for the project and has drilled Phase I at a substantial savings in operating costs compared to the use of a drilling contractor. The program has proceeded very well and the crews obtained a rapid rate of advance and achieved nearly 100% core recoveries.
The Company believes the El Zopilote District is a large mineral system that may be part of a volcanic caldera complex. The geology of the region is a favorable environment for volcanogenic massive sulfides. Because of the favorable outlook for the region, the Company has began negotiations to acquire a much larger nearby exploration concession now owned by another company.
ARGENTINA PROPERTIES
In January 1997, the Company acquired an option to purchase twelve separate mine claim groups in La Rioja Province, Argentina. Under the terms of the option agreement, the Company can purchase the properties on or before March 1, 2000 by the paying either $4.5 million in cash or $5.5 million in the Company's common stock. The original owners will retain a 1.9% net smelter return on future production. The Company is required to spend $200,000 on the property prior to May 1, 1998, an additional $300,000 prior to March 1, 1999 and an additional $400,000 prior to March 1, 2000.
The acquisition includes 12 separate properties which have all been advanced to the status of mines, meaning that the title to the mining rights has been deeded. A brief description of the most advanced properties, which are known as Veta Capricho and Salto de Albi is included here. These properties are located at an average elevation of about 10,000 feet above sea level.
Veta Capricho
The Veta Capricho prospect, located in the Los Metalitos gorge, was acquired by the current owners in the early 1970's and has been held for approximately 25 years. Access to the region is generally via 4-wheel drive vehicle from Jague. The final 15 mile route to the prospect is currently undergoing improvement. This work is partially being funded by the Company and partially funded by the government of La Rioja Province.
The prospect appears to be a series of stacked siliceous sulfide occurrences. The principal host rocks are quartz-schists, feldspathic gneisses and lesser amphibolite of the Precambrian Espinal Formation. Structure is dominated by a large north-south trending anticline, parallel to the gorge. The principal zone can be traced on surface for more than 6,000 feet in a south direction, ranges in thickness from 3 feet to more than 60, and dips to the west 30 degrees to 80 degrees. Abundant oxide iron, copper and manganese stain define the at surface. The massive to disseminated unoxidized metal mineralization, principally seen in one short adit, consists of specular hematite, bornite, chalcopyrite, galena and sphalerite. Quartz and possible carbonate minerals are the gangue minerals. Thirteen samples taken by Company personnel in January were located along approximately 1500 feet of strike length of the prospect. These samples returned an average grade of over 7.5% copper, 5% combined lead-zinc and 4 ounces per ton silver.
In a detailed surface sampling program conducted by the Company's personnel in April 1997, some 20 channel samples were collected which averaged 1.75% copper, 6% combined lead-zinc and 2 ounces per ton silver. The Company is seeking a joint venture partner to conduct a diamond drilling programs to test the down-dip extension of this promising zone.
Salto de Albi
The Salto de Albi porphyry copper system is located within the Albi ravine. The complex is roughly oval in shape, 3,000 feet long in a northeast direction, and 2,000 feet wide. Surface outcrops are oxidized yellow and red-brown. Northeast-trending quartz-feldspar porphyry dikes, as much as tens of feet in width, are common along the northwest border of the complex. Copper-molybdenum mineralization appears to be best defined near the quartz-feldspar porphyry dikes and within intense potassically altered volcanic rocks. Historic sampling in the vicinity of the porphyry dikes has indicated a near vertical mineralized zone at surface exceeding 500 feet in width and 2500 feet in length with overall copper grades possibly exceeding 1%, with
associated tin, silver and molybdenum credits. Lower grade copper values surround this higher grade zone. The Salto de Albi porphyry system is believed to have the potential to host in excess of 100,000,000 tons of mineral resources. The Company is seeking a joint venture partner to explore this project as well.
UNITED STATES PROPERTIES
Crescent Mine
In February 1995, Celebration Mining Company entered into an agreement to acquire a mineral lease on the Crescent Mine. The Crescent Mine is an underground mine, located in the Coeur d'Alene Mining District of Shoshone County, Idaho, about five miles east of Kellogg, Idaho.
Operations of the Crescent Mine began prior to 1917 and, according to records available to the Company, approximately 25 million ounces of silver have been produced from the Crescent Mine. The mine is not currently in operation and is flooded to approximately the 1200 foot level. The most current ore reserve report that the Company has been able to obtain was prepared in 1985 by Norman A. Radford, a registered professional geologist. That report, based on an assumption that silver prices would remain below ten dollars ($10) per ounce, indicated that the Crescent Mine contained 141,000 tons of probable reserves averaging 31 ounces of silver per ton of mineralized material. At current prices of under six dollars ($6.00), the Company cannot assure that any of the mineralization could be mined at a profit.
Host rocks in the Crescent Mine, in common with the rest of the District, are members of the Precambrian Belt Super Group. Within the Crescent Mine area, three formations are present, in descending order: Wallace, St. Regis, and Revett. The most favorable rocks in the Crescent Mine are the Lower St. Regis and Upper Revett quartzites. These rocks occur in the Crescent Mine from the 1,200-foot level downward.
The Coeur d'Alene "Silver Belt" ore structures are frequently narrow, fragmented, and sinuous, and have exhibited great vertical continuity. For this reason, they have been discovered and mined at levels deeper than is generally the case in other mining districts. The ore at the Crescent Mine occurs in thin veins steeply dipping to the south. These veins may vary in thickness from several inches to several feet. The Alhambra and the Syndicate Faults are major reverse faults and both are present in the Crescent Mine.
The Crescent Mine property consists of 12 patented mining claims, nine unpatented claims, and two Idaho state leases located immediately adjacent to and west of the world-famous Sunshine Mine owned by Sunshine Mining Company (SSC-NYSE). The Sunshine Mine has produced nearly 400 million ounces of silver since its inception, making it the most productive primary silver mine in North America. The major structural and stratigraphic features which have produced the major ore deposits in the Sunshine Mine are also present in the Crescent Mine.
The Crescent is developed to a vertical depth of 5,100 feet by two vertical shafts. The majority of past production from the Crescent Mine occurred in the Revett formation over 1,200 feet of dip between the 3,100 level and the 4,300 level. In the mid-1980's, the No. 2 shaft was deepened to the 5,100 level, which opened an additional 800 feet of favorable Revett quartzites for development of the downward extensions of the East Footwall and Hook veins, which have been the most productive veins in the Crescent Mine.
The Company's plans to re-establish significant silver production from the Crescent Mine will be dependent upon silver prices. Management estimates that a price of at least $6.00 per ounce would need to be sustained for a period of six months to justify the capital investment necessary to de-water the lower workings of the mine and to rehabilitate the stopes. At December 9, 1997, the Comex Spot price for silver was $5.36. Absent a $6.00 silver price, the Company intends to pursue development and exploration efforts in the upper Crescent. The workings of the upper Crescent Mine are above the water table, and therefore can be developed without major capital investment. The Company believes that a processing agreement for Crescent ore can be negotiated with the neighboring Sunshine Mine on a favorable basis.
During the 1996 fiscal year, the Company's field activities at the Crescent Mine were limited to are unsuccessful attempt to re-open the #3 level portal. The portal was filled with unconsolidated glacial till and it was determined that a much more expensive program will be required given the bad ground. Due to the low silver price, no attempt to dewater the lower mine was contemplated during the 1997 fiscal year. Further developments on the Crescent Mine for fiscal 1998 will depend upon the price of silver, as well as the Company's available capital.
Conjecture Mine
In late August 1995, the Company completed two acquisitions which included six patented and six unpatented mining claims comprising the Conjecture Mine property.
The Conjecture property is located in the Lakeview Mining District of Idaho, some 30 miles to the northwest of the Coeur d'Alene mining district. The rock groups of the Lakeview District are the same Precambrian belt series associated with the world-class silver deposits of the Coeur d' Alene mining district to the south.
The history of the Lakeview District in general, and the Conjecture Mine in particular, has shown sporadic high grade silver production from shallow workings since the late 1800's. Most recent production on a neighboring property occurred as recently as 1987. However, within the District, only the Conjecture Mine itself has been developed to any significant depth.
In the late 1950's and early 1960's, Federal Resources of Salt Lake City, Utah invested approximately $3 million in shaft sinking and underground development at the Conjecture Mine. In all, Federal Resources completed a 2,000 foot deep, three compartment vertical shaft
and nearly 12,000 feet of drifts, cross-cuts and raises to establish a block of mineralized material of 336,000 tons at a grade of 11 ounces per ton of silver, and .03 ounces of gold, with some lead and zinc.
An additional block of 370,000 tons of similar grade was listed as a possible block of mineralization between the levels. Since obtaining the property, the Company has not been able to re-confirm these reserve estimates of mineralized material, although an independent reserve report done in 1981 essentially verified the earlier numbers.
That independent reserve report was prepared by Richard W. Morris, a registered professional geologist, for a company known as Minerals Management, Inc. Nevertheless, no assurance can be made that this mineralized material constitutes a proven or probable "ore reserve," if at all, until it can be verified.
The Company's geologists have noted the striking similarities between the Lakeview District and the nearby Coeur d'Alene District. High grade silver mineralization has been shown to extend laterally for over two miles, and vertically for over 3,000 feet in the Conjecture Mine. The same rock unit sequence (i.e., Wallace, St. Regis, Revett) is found in both districts, with the same important ore minerals (tetrahedrite, galena, sphalerite) defining productive ore shoots. However, within the Lakeview District, only the Conjecture shaft has penetrated the less favorable Wallace formation into the better quartzite units.
The Company did not conduct any exploration activities at the Conjecture Mine during 1997 and absent a higher silver price, nothing is contemplated for Fiscal Year 1998.
Vipont Mine
The Vipont Mine is located in the Ashbrook Mining District, a remote area in the extreme northwestern corner of Box Elder County, Utah, approximately ten miles east of the Nevada state line and one mile south of the Idaho state line near the headwaters of the Little Birch Creek. It is accessible by asphalt, gravel, and dirt roads. The mine property consists of 53 patented (deeded) mining claims covering nearly 1,000 acres with a 25% undivided interest owned by Celebration Mining Company (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.)
The Vipont Mine was at one time one of the foremost silver- producing mines in the State of Utah. Its greatest period of activity was from 1919 through mid-1923 after the passage of the Pittman Silver Purchase Act ("Pittman Act") which authorized the purchase of 200,000,000 ounces of silver. The Mine closed in August 1923 with the expiration of the Pittman Act after producing nearly 1,000,000 ounces of silver per year. Some leasing was done in the 1930's and the Mine was closed in 1942 when Congress passed War Order L-208 closing all gold and silver mines. From 1977 through 1987, United Silver Mines began further development and leached the old mill tailings.
The mineralization in the Mine occurs predominantly as the mineral argentite in the Vipont limestone. Two other units, the Phelan limestone, and the Sentinel limestone have produced high-grade ore. Neither the Phelan nor the Sentinel have been seriously explored for additional ore.
The mineralization in the Vipont limestone occurs as a continuous tabular "manto" mineralized body in the crests of folds (crenulations) superimposed upon a shallowly dipping (22 degrees) syncline. The continuity of the mineral down-dip has been shown by past mining operations and by a line of drill holes below the old workings. It is thought by geologists that the mineralization will continue to down-dip toward an igneous intrusive 4,600 feet southwest of the old mine.
There are two distinct mineralized deposits on the Vipont Property: the oxide deposit and the sulfide deposit. The characteristics of each are unique and require different approaches to development and exploration. According to a 1994 report by Dr. Armond H. Beers, the oxide deposit contains 1,100,000 tons of mineralized material grading 6.9 ounces per ton in silver and with a small gold credit. The Company has not independently re-verified those findings and cannot and does not make any assurance as to their accuracy or compliance with regulatory standards.
The sulfide deposit is currently defined in the Beers Report as 478,000 tons of mineralized material at an estimated average grade of 13.52 ounces per ton in silver. Geologic interpretation of the manto- type replacement deposit, however, may establish upon further exploration that this mineralized resource may be larger. The Company's management and professional staff believe that the sulfide deposits will represent the long-term future of the Vipont Mine.
During the 1996 fiscal year, the Company elected not to proceed further with the Vipont joint venture, but as a result of the Company's successful effort at removing all liens on the property at a Box Elder County Sheriff's sale, the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary now owns a 25% undivided interest in the property. The company has no plans to proceed further with the Vipont joint venture until such time as silver prices improve significantly.
Coeur d'Alene Syndicate Property.
No significant mineral production has to date occurred on the Coeur d'Alene Syndicate property and there are no known proven or probable reserves. In September 1995, the Company acquired fee simple ownership of the 24 patented mining claims that comprise the Coeur d'Alene Syndicate property, located in Burke Canyon some six miles northeast of Wallace, Idaho. The property is near the eastern end of the Coeur d'Alene mining district, and is an undeveloped portion of a major mineralized trend running through the Star-Morning Mines and on to the Frisco and Black Bear Mines.
Geologists have long considered the Syndicate property to be an outstanding exploration target where the highly productive Star fault turns to the southwest and intersects the Commander fault. This structural anomaly, occurring in favorable Revett and Burke formation quartzite rocks is exactly what develops major ore shoots within the Coeur d'Alene district.
The property is currently developed by an adit from the Black Bear property, but could ultimately be accessed by deep shafts on either end of the strike if agreements could be made with the respective companies who own the Star and Frisco Mines. Subsequent to September 30, 1995, the Company entered into an agreement with an independent timber company to sell the mature timber for cash. The transaction was expected to close in Fiscal 1996, but was not concluded as a timber consultant recommended allowing the timber crop to achieve greater maturity prior to harvesting. The Company plans to re-evaluate the timber potential of the property during fiscal 1998.
Subsequent to the end of the Fiscal Year which ended on September 30, 1997, the Company sold the Coeur d'Alene Syndicate property along with 3 additional patented claims and several unpatented claims to Centurion Mines Corporation in exchange for 5 million shares of Centurion common stock valued at .30 per share.
The Liberal King Mine.
In the fourth quarter of Fiscal 1995, the Company acquired fee simple ownership of the Liberal King Mine, consisting of five patented claims located southwest of the famous Bunker Hill Mine in the Pine Creek area of the Coeur d'Alene Mining District. At the time the mine was last operated by Spokane National in the 1960's, that company reported a defined block of mineralized material totaling 81,000 tons at 12% zinc and 2.5 ounces of silver. In the early 1980's, Cominco- American conducted an exploration program on the Liberal King property in search of a large, stratabound zinc-silver deposit. Such potential has not been fully explored at this time. The Company has not been able to evaluate this property as of the date of this filing, and no current reserve estimates can be given.
Frisco Standard Silver Mine.
As of the first quarter of fiscal 1997, the Company has fully divested itself of any ownership in the Frisco Standard Mine. In September 1995, the Company had acquired fee simple ownership of the seven patented claims that comprised this property.
New Departure Mine.
There are no known proven or probable reserves identified at the New Departure Mine. In August 1995, the Company acquired a long term mineral lease for the New Departure Mine in Beaverhead County, Montana. This property is located in southeastern Montana near the town of Bannock. The property consists of eight patented claims and has a history of very high grade silver production. After an evaluation of
the data on the property, and a field examination by Company personnel and a consulting geologist, the decision was made in October 1997 to drop the lease, and therefore all capitalized leasehold costs were written off at September 30, 1997.
Utah Properties and Royalty Interests.
The Company is not currently involved in active exploration with respect to any of the property holdings or royalty interests within the Utah Gold Belt. During Fiscal 1997, the Company engaged an independent geologist to evaluate the mineral potential of the Company's holdings. Based upon his recommendations, the company dropped some property and has held onto only claims and leases which are low-cost to hold and evaluated as having some mineral merit. The Company does not anticipate pursuing significant exploration activities on the Utah Gold Belt properties during Fiscal 1998.
The "Utah Gold Belt" is a major mineralized north-south zone, including the Oquirrh Mountain range, situated on the west side of the Salt Lake valley. The Utah Gold Belt is close to Salt Lake City, and major highways and railroads make up a well-developed infrastructure. The Utah Gold Belt includes the well-known Bingham and Mercur mining districts, plus smaller Ophir, Stockton, and Greeley districts.
The Utah Gold Belt has been a major producer of copper, gold, silver, and other metals since the late 1800's. Discovery and profitable production of new ore bodies has continued up to the present time. Important new gold mines have been developed within the last decade. Centurion Mines initiated a land acquisition program in 1987 and the Company subsequently purchased Utah Gold Belt properties because management recognized that these properties had not been fully explored and they offered some potential for the discovery of new gold ore bodies.
The Company sold various Utah Gold Belt mining properties to Kennecott Corporation during 1992, and has retained production royalty interests on these properties. These properties are contiguous to or near properties held previously by Kennecott in the Utah Gold Belt.
Management of the Company believed it was to the Company's advantage to allow the ownership of these properties to pass to Kennecott, with the Company retaining a production royalty interest. The Company is not now receiving any royalties, and there is no assurance that the Company will ever receive royalties from these properties, and cannot predict the amount, if any, of such royalties.
The Company's land holdings in the Utah Gold Belt consist of Utah State mineral leases, fee leases and unpatented lode mining claims totaling over 5,000 acres. The Company did not undertake any exploration efforts on these holdings during fiscal 1997 and does not plan any activities during fiscal 1998.
ITEM 3.