Item 2. Properties
Track Configuration
BNSF Railway operates one of the largest railroad networks in North America with approximately 32,000 route miles of track, excluding multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings, approximately 23,000 miles of which are owned route miles, including easements, in 28 states and two Canadian provinces as of December 31, 2009. Approximately 9,000 route miles of BNSF Railway’s system consist of trackage rights that permit BNSF Railway to operate its trains with its crews over other railroads’ tracks.
As of December 31, 2009, the total BNSF Railway system, including single and multiple main tracks, yard tracks and sidings, consisted of approximately 50,000 operated miles of track, all of which are owned by or held under easement by BNSF Railway except for approximately 10,000 route miles operated under trackage rights. At December 31, 2009, approximately 26,000 miles of BNSF Railway’s track consisted of 112-pound per yard or heavier rail, including approximately 20,000 track miles of 131-pound per yard or heavier rail.
Equipment Configuration
BNSF Railway owned or had under non-cancelable leases exceeding one year the following units of railroad rolling stock and other equipment as of the dates shown below. During 2009, BNSF continued phasing out intermodal equipment (domestic chassis, domestic containers and trailers) due to an increase in customers providing their own equipment for services versus BNSF maintaining a rail-controlled fleet. Certain prior period amounts have been adjusted to conform to current year presentation.
Capital Expenditures and Maintenance
Capital Expenditures
The extent of BNSF Railway’s replacement and capacity program is outlined in the following table:
A breakdown of the Company’s cash capital expenditures for the three years ended December 31, 2009, is incorporated by reference from a table in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources; Investing Activities.”
BNSF’s planned 2010 capital commitments are incorporated by reference from Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the heading “Executive Summary; Capital Commitment Outlook for 2010.”
Locomotive Maintenance
As of December 31, 2009, General Electric Company and Electro-Motive Diesel, Inc. performed locomotive maintenance and overhauls for BNSF Railway at its facilities under various maintenance agreements that covered approximately 4,000 locomotives.
Property and Facilities
BNSF Railway operates various facilities and equipment to support its transportation system, including its infrastructure and locomotives and freight cars. It also owns or leases other equipment to support rail operations, including containers, chassis and vehicles. Support facilities for rail operations include yards and terminals throughout its rail network, system locomotive shops to perform locomotive servicing and maintenance, a centralized network operations center for train dispatching and network operations monitoring and management in Fort Worth, Texas, regional dispatching centers, computers, telecommunications equipment, signal systems and other support systems. Transfer facilities are maintained for rail-to-rail as well as intermodal transfer of containers, trailers and other freight traffic. These facilities include 31 major intermodal hubs located across the system. BNSF Railway’s largest intermodal facilities in terms of 2009 volume were as follows:
BNSF Railway owns 22 automotive distribution facilities and serves eight port facilities where automobiles are loaded on or unloaded from multi-level rail cars in the United States and Canada.
BNSF Railway’s largest freight car classification yards based on the average daily number of cars processed (excluding cars that do not change trains at the terminal, intermodal and coal cars) are shown below:
As of December 31, 2009, certain BNSF Railway properties and other assets were subject to liens securing $94 million of mortgage debt. Certain locomotives, rolling stock and facilities of BNSF Railway were subject to equipment leases and financing obligations, as referred to in Notes 9 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Productivity
Productivity, as measured by thousand gross ton miles per employee, is shown in the table below. Gross ton miles is defined as the product of the number of loaded and empty miles traveled and the combined weight of the car and contents.
A discussion of Employees and Labor Relations is incorporated by reference from Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading “Other Matters; Employee and Labor Relations.”
Business Mix
In serving the Midwest, Pacific Northwest and the Western, Southwestern and Southeastern regions and ports of the country, BNSF transports, through one operating transportation services segment, a range of products and commodities derived from manufacturing, agricultural and natural resource industries. Over half of the freight revenues of the Company are covered by contractual agreements of varying durations,while the balance is subject to common carrier, published prices or quotations offered by the Company. BNSF’s financial performance is influenced by, among other things, general and industry economic conditions at the international, national and regional levels. The following map illustrates the Company’s primary routes, including trackage rights, which allow BNSF to access major cities and ports in the western and southern United States as well as Canadian and Mexican traffic. In addition to major cities and ports, BNSF efficiently serves many smaller markets by working closely with approximately 200 shortline partners. BNSF has also entered into marketing agreements with CSX Transportation, Canadian National Railway Company and Kansas City Southern Railway Company, expanding the marketing reach for each railroad and their customers.
Consumer Products:
The Consumer Products’ freight business provided approximately 32 percent of freight revenues in 2009 and consisted of the following business sectors:
•
International Intermodal - International business consists primarily of container traffic from steamship companies such as Mediterranean Shipping Company S.A., Orient Overseas Container Line (OOCL) and Hyundai Merchant Marine Co., Ltd. International Intermodal accounted for approximately 43 percent of total Consumer Products revenues.
•
Domestic Intermodal - Domestic Intermodal generated approximately 49 percent of total Consumer Products revenues. The Domestic Intermodal sector is comprised of the following business areas:
•
Truckload/Intermodal Marketing Companies - The Truckload business area is comprised of full truckload carriers such as J.B. Hunt Transportation, Schneider National and Swift Transportation. The Intermodal Marketing Companies business area is comprised of various shippers’ agents and consolidators.
•
Expedited Truckload/Less-than-Truckload - This business area is comprised of less-than-truckload carriers and parcel carriers such as United Parcel Service and YRC Worldwide. It also includes expedited truckload carriers such as U.S. Xpress Enterprises, Transport Corporation of America and Marten Transport Ltd.
•
Automotive - The transportation of both assembled motor vehicles and shipments of vehicle parts to numerous destinations throughout the Midwest, Southwest, West and Pacific Northwest provided about 8 percent of total Consumer Products revenues. Asian and European automobile companies account for approximately 83 percent of Automotive revenue.
Coal:
In 2009, the transportation of coal contributed about 26 percent of freight revenues. BNSF is one of the largest transporters of low-sulfur coal in the United States. More than 90 percent of all BNSF’s coal tons originated from the Powder River Basin of Wyoming and Montana. These coal shipments were destined for coal-fired electric generating stations located primarily in the North Central, South Central, Southeast, Mountain and Pacific Northwest regions of the United States. BNSF also transports coal from the Powder River Basin to markets in Canada, the eastern United States and Asian markets. Demand for Powder River Basin coal has increased substantially over time due to its relatively low sulfur content, abundant reserves, relatively inexpensive mine production and competitive-delivered cost to power plants.
Other BNSF coal shipments originate principally in Colorado, New Mexico and North Dakota. These shipments move to electrical generating stations and industrial plants in the Mountain and North Central regions of the United States and to Mexico.
Industrial Products:
The Industrial Products’ freight business provided approximately 21 percent of BNSF’s freight revenues in 2009 and consisted of the following five business areas:
•
Construction Products - The Construction Products sector represented approximately 31 percent of total Industrial Products revenues in 2009. This sector serves virtually all of the commodities included in, or resulting from, the production of steel along with mineral commodities such as clays, sands, cements, aggregates, sodium compounds and other industrial minerals. Industrial taconite, an iron ore derivative produced in northern Minnesota, scrap steel and coal coke are BNSF’s primary input products transported. Finished steel products range from structural beams and steel coils to wire and nails. BNSF links the integrated steel mills in the East with fabricators in the West and Southwest. Service is also provided to various mini-mills in the Southwest that produce rebar, beams and coiled rod for the construction industry. Industrial minerals include mined and processed commodities such as cement and aggregates (construction sand, gravel and crushed stone) that generally move to domestic markets for use in general construction and public work projects, including highways. Borates and clays move to domestic points as well as to export markets primarily through West Coast ports. Sodium compounds, primarily soda ash, are moved to domestic markets for use in the manufacturing of glass and other industrial products. Sand is utilized in oil and natural gas drilling, the manufacturing of glass and in foundry applications.
•
Building Products - This sector generated approximately 25 percent of total 2009 Industrial Products revenues and includes primary forest product commodities such as lumber, plywood, oriented strand board, particleboard, paper products, pulpmill feedstocks, wood pulp and sawlogs. Also included in this sector are government, machinery and waste traffic. Commodities from this diverse group primarily originate from the Pacific Northwest, Western Canada, upper Midwest and the Southeast for shipment mainly into domestic markets. Industries served include construction, furniture, photography, publishing, newspaper and industrial packaging. Shipments of waste, ranging from municipal waste to contaminated soil, are transported to landfills and reclamation centers across the country. The government and machinery business includes aircraft parts, agricultural and construction machinery, military equipment and large industrial machinery.
•
Petroleum Products - Commodities included in the Petroleum Products sector are liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), diesel fuels, asphalt, alcohol, solvents, petroleum coke, lubes, oils, waxes and carbon black. This group made up 20 percent of total Industrial Products revenues for 2009. Product use varies based on commodity and includes the use of LPG for heating purposes, diesel fuel and lubes to run heavy machinery and asphalt for road projects and roofing. Products within this group originate and terminate throughout the BNSF network, with the largest areas of activities being the Texas Gulf, Pacific Northwest, California, Montana and Illinois.
•
Chemicals and Plastic Products - The Chemicals and Plastic Products sector represented approximately 16 percent of total 2009 Industrial Products revenues. This group is composed of industrial chemicals and plastics commodities. These commodities include caustic soda, chlorine, industrial gases, acids, polyethylene, polypropylene and polyvinyl chloride. Industrial chemicals and plastics resins are used by the automotive, housing and packaging industries, as well as for feedstocks, to produce other chemicals and plastic products. These commodities originate primarily in the Gulf Coast region for shipment mainly into domestic markets.
•
Food and Beverages - Food and Beverages represented approximately 8 percent of total 2009 Industrial Products revenues. This group consists of beverages, canned goods and perishable food items. Other consumer goods such as cotton, salt, rubber and tires and miscellaneous boxcar shipments are also included in this business area.
Agricultural Products:
The transportation of Agricultural Products provided approximately 21 percent of 2009 freight revenues. These products include wheat, corn, bulk foods, soybeans, oil seeds and meals, feeds, barley, oats and rye, flour and mill products, milo, oils, specialty grains, malt, ethanol and fertilizer. The BNSF system is strategically located to serve the grain-producing regions of the Midwest and Great Plains. The Company continues to develop and operate a shuttle network for grain and grain products, which allows more efficient use of equipment and improved cycle times. In addition to serving most grain-producing areas, BNSF serves a variety of terminal, storage, feeding and food-processing locations. Furthermore, BNSF has direct access to major export markets via the Pacific Northwest, western Great Lakes, Texas Gulf and Mexican gateways.
Freight Statistics
The following table sets forth certain freight statistics relating to rail operations for the periods indicated.
Revenues, cars/units and average revenue per car/unit information for the three years ended December 31, 2009, is incorporated by reference from a table in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading “Results of Operations; Revenue Table.”
Government Regulation and Legislation
The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations generally applicable to all businesses. Rail operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (STB) of the United States Department of Transportation (DOT), the Federal Railroad Administration of the DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies and Canadian regulatory agencies for operations in Canada. The STB has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line extensions and construction and consolidation or merger with, or acquisition of control of, rail common carriers. The outcome of STB proceedings can affect the profitability of BNSF’s business.
DOT and OSHA have jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a number of safety and health aspects of rail operations, including the transportation of hazardous materials. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law.
BNSF Railway’s rail operations, as well as those of its competitors, are also subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulation. These laws cover discharges to water, air emissions, toxic substances and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. This regulation has the effect of increasing the cost and liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.
Many of BNSF Railway’s land holdings are and have been used for industrial or transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. As a result, BNSF Railway is now subject to, and will from time to time continue to be subject to, environmental cleanup and enforcement actions. In particular, the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), also known as the Superfund law, generally imposes joint and several liability for cleanup and enforcement costs on current and former owners and operators of a site, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. Accordingly, BNSF Railway may be responsible under CERCLA and other federal and state statutes for all or part of the costs to clean up sites at which certain substances may have been released by BNSF Railway, its current lessees, former owners or lessees of properties, or other third parties. BNSF Railway may also be subject to claims by third parties for investigation, cleanup, restoration or other environmental costs under environmental statutes or common law with respect to properties they own that have been impacted by BNSF Railway operations. Further discussion is incorporated by reference from Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Railroad Retirement
Railroad industry personnel are covered by the Railroad Retirement System instead of Social Security. BNSF Railway’s contributions under the Railroad Retirement System have been higher than those in industries covered by Social Security. The Railroad Retirement System, funded primarily by payroll taxes on covered employers and employees, includes a benefit roughly equivalent to Social Security (Tier I), an additional benefit similar to that allowed in some private defined-benefit plans (Tier II) and other benefits. For 2009, the Railroad Retirement System required a 19.75 percent contribution by railroad employers on eligible wages, while the Social Security and Medicare Acts only required a 7.65 percent contribution on similar wage bases.
Competition
The business environment in which BNSF Railway operates is highly competitive. Depending on the specific market, deregulated motor carriers and other railroads, as well as river barges, ships and pipelines in certain markets, may exert pressure on price and service levels. The presence of advanced, high service truck lines with expedited delivery, subsidized infrastructure and minimal empty mileage continues to affect the market for non-bulk, time-sensitive freight. The potential expansion of longer combination vehicles could further encroach upon markets traditionally served by railroads. In order to remain competitive, BNSF Railway and other railroads continue to develop and implement operating efficiencies to improve productivity.
As railroads streamline, rationalize and otherwise enhance their franchises, competition among rail carriers intensifies. BNSF Railway’s primary rail competitor in the Western region of the United States is the Union Pacific Railroad Company. Other Class I railroads and numerous regional railroads and motor carriers also operate in parts of the same territories served by BNSF Railway.
Based on weekly reporting by the Association of American Railroads, BNSF’s share of the western United States rail traffic in 2009 was approximately 49 percent.
Employee and Labor Relations
A significant majority of BNSF Railway’s employees are union-represented. Final agreements have been reached in the most recent bargaining round covering 100 percent of BNSF’s unionized workforce. These agreements resolved all wage, work rule, and health and welfare issues through December 31, 2009, and will remain in effect until new agreements are reached or the Railway Labor Act’s procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods and the possibility of U.S. presidential intervention) are exhausted. Negotiations for the new bargaining round began November 1, 2009.
In the new bargaining round, an agreement covering wage and work rules issues was reached with the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen (BLET), representing nearly 7,000 BNSF engineers, which covers the period from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2014. Also in the new bargaining round, BNSF has joined industry-wide (or “national”) bargaining with all unions on health and welfare issues and with all unions except BLET on wage and work rule issues.
Item 3.