ITEM 2.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
Florida Canyon
Location
The Florida Canyon Mine is located approximately 42 miles southwest of Winnemucca, Nevada, and has operated since 1986 and was purchased by Apollo in June 2002. Mining operations and facilities are on Sections 1, 2, 3, 10, 11, and 12 of T31N, R33E, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian, Pershing County, Nevada. The mineralization and facilities extend to the north in Sections 34 and 35 of T32N, R33E, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian.
Production
For the year ended December 31, 2004, a total of 6,257,953 tons of ore containing 102,628 ounces of gold were placed on the leach pad and 72,573 ounces of gold were recovered. During 2004, the Florida Canyon Mine sold 73,082 ounces of gold and 60,405 ounces of silver. Historically, the Florida Canyon Mine has produced approximately 105,000 ounces of gold and 75,000 ounces of silver annually. In the third quarter 2004, mining activity was reduced to one shift and we suspended the operation of the crusher and therefore all ore placed on the pad was run of mine. On March 1, 2005, we ceased mining at Florida Canyon Mine, but we are continuing to leach the existing ore on the leach pad. We expect to decide later this year whether to build the leach pad expansions, which are fully permitted, and recommence mining.
We have historically processed approximately 9 million tons of ore annually at the Florida Canyon Mine, with an average of 30,000 tons of high grade material processed daily.
The following table details the Florida Canyon Mine production and cash cost per ounce history for the last three years ended December 31. All production is subject to a 2.5% net smelter return (NSR) royalty.
Total mined gold ounces were 91% of the ore reserve model in 2002, 92% of model in 2003, and 88% of model in 2004.
Description of Land, Geology, Process, and Equipment
The Florida Canyon Mine is a low grade, open pit, heap leach operation that has generally mined several pits at the same time. The land that we own, lease or control at the Florida Canyon Mine covers a total of 16,016 acres. Fee lands total 4,075.81 acres, while 19 patented claims total 359.9 acres. We also maintain 579 unpatented claims that total 11,580 acres. All of the fee lands and patented claims and most of the unpatented claims have been surveyed. Land lease and option payments and unpatented claim maintenance fees totaled $823,975 for 2002 and 2003. As of January 1, 2004, the total land cost is $115,900 annually. Florida Canyon Mine’s operating permit area consists of 5,522 acres. We have disturbed approximately 1,958 acres of land, consisting of 1,034 acres of public lands and 923 acres of fee (private) lands. Mining the remaining reserves will add 77 acres of disturbance, of which 24 acres are public lands and 53 acres are private lands.
The Florida Canyon deposits are situated in the Basin and Range physiographic province of northwestern Nevada, typified by a series of northward-trending elongated mountain ranges separated by alluvial valleys. The deposits are located in the Humboldt Range, which is formed by north-trending folding and faulting. The Florida Canyon Mine area is dominated by a major regional structural zone, termed the Humboldt Structural Zone, which is a 200 km wide northeasterly-trending structural zone with left-lateral strike slip movement. Permo-Triassic rocks of the Rochester Rhyolite, Prida Formation, Natchez Pass Formation, and Grass Valley Formation are all exposed in the Florida Canyon area. The Humboldt City Thrust separates the Natchez Pass and Grass Valley formations from the underlying Prida Formation. There is a strong N30 degrees E to N50 degrees E structural fabric prevalent in and adjacent to the Florida Canyon Mine deposits, as evidenced by the alignment of quartz veining, shear zones, and well-developed joint sets.
Mineralization at the Florida Canyon Mine consists of native gold and electrum, an alloy of gold and silver associated with quartz, iron oxides, pyrite, marcasite, and arsenopyrite. Quartz is the major gangue mineral. Secondary minerals identified in the Florida Canyon Mine deposits include gypsum (likely remobilized from the Grass Valley Formation), alunite, barite, native sulfur, calcite, dolomite, anhydrite, pyrargyrite, pyrrhotite, and stibnite.
The Florida Canyon Mine has four carbon absorption plants on the property and one stripping, regeneration, and refinery plant. The mine, when operating, was run with twelve 150-ton haul trucks, two hydraulic 23-yard shovels, and additional support equipment. Apollo leases or owns all of the equipment utilized at the Florida Canyon Mine, and all of the equipment is in good working condition. A portion of the mine equipment at the Florida Canyon Mine is held under installment purchase agreements and capital leases with Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we paid off a capital lease agreement with ATEL Equipment Financing for the financing of our two hydraulic shovels and our drilltech drills. The total initial purchase price of the mine equipment was approximately $34.72 million. As of February 28, 2005, the balance owed on our remaining leased equipment was approximately $3.21 million.
Two types of ore are typically processed at the Florida Canyon Mine: (i) higher grade material ranging from 0.016 to 0.022 ounces of gold per short ton, and (ii) run-of-mine material generally ranging from 0.006 and 0.0016 ounces of gold per short ton. Approximately 45% of the ore processed at the Florida Canyon Mine is higher grade material and is crushed to 80% passing 0.75 inch and transported to the heap leach pad by a radial stacking conveyor for leaching. The remaining 55% of ore is run of mine and is dumped on the heap leach pad by 150-ton trucks without crushing, then bulldozed prior to leaching.
Material is leached in three stages by drip systems. Each drip system applies 8,000 gallons per minute of leach solution to the heap pad. The first stage leaches ore that has been placed on the pad first.
The second stage may leach younger ore or run of mine, or may be a recycled leach from stage one. The third stage leaches the most recently crushed material on the pad. Through this process, the grade of the leach solution builds as it travels through each stage. After the leach solution has traveled through all three stages, the solution is stored in the pregnant leach solution pond.
The pregnant leach solution is processed in one of the carbon absorption plants by absorbing the gold in the leach solution onto activated carbon. After the carbon has absorbed sufficient gold, the carbon is transported to the stripping, regeneration, and refinery plant. The carbon is stripped and the concentrated gold solution is pumped through electrowinning cells, at which point the gold is plated onto cathodes and then refined into gold/silver doré bars. Most of the makeup water used for leaching comes from a geothermal source located near the plant site.
The operation uses a six-month recovery cycle to model gold recovery for both run of mine and crushed materials. Bottle roll tests show an ultimate recovery of 71% at Florida Canyon for crusher or high grade ores. The same tests show ultimate recoveries of 58% for run of mine production.
Mineral Reserves at Florida Canyon Mine
The drilling on the Florida Canyon and Standard Mine properties between 1969 and December 31, 2004, totals over 1.9 million feet in 4,476 drill holes.
The Florida Canyon Mine reserves include the remaining material from several pits with prior mining and some new areas that have not been mined. The pits for the new areas were designed using Whittle pit optimization at $400/ounce gold price to complete the design, and cut off grades based on $375/ounce gold price to determine reserves. The new areas are generally further up the slope of the Humboldt Range. The tables below summarize Florida Canyon Mine reserves at December 31, 2004, which conform to the definitions ascribed by the Canadian Institute of Mining (“CIM”), Metallurgy and Petroleum and guidelines adopted by CIM Council on August 20, 2000 and the SEC Industry Guide 7 definitions of Proven and Probable reserves.
Our reserve estimates were prepared by Mine Development Associates. The following chart shows the Florida Canyon Mine reserves at December 31, 2004.
(1)
The internal cutoff grade calculation assumes the material is already inside an optimum pit and must be mined. The decision is where to send the material. If a profit can be made by processing the material rather than sending it to the waste dump then the material should be processed. The internal cutoff grade calculation removes the mining cost from the cutoff calculation. A $375 ounce gold price is used for the cutoff grade calculation. Historical recovery rates of 71% for high grade ore and 58% for run of mine ore
are used to calculate the ounces to be recovered by the leach pad. All current reserves at the Florida Canyon Mine deposit are subject to a 2.5% net smelter return royalty.
Other Florida Canyon Mine property is subject to royalties as disclosed in the table below.
We have paid royalties of $668,575, $898,104, and $508,000 in the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.
The annual holding costs of Florida Canyon Mine, exclusive of property taxes, are shown below.
Environmental
The Florida Canyon Mine has been in continuous operation since 1986. The original permit to operate was granted by the BLM and the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection Reclamation Permit 126. The remaining reserves are the subject of the 17 sequentially numbered amendments to the Florida Canyon Mine operating plan. An 18th amendment (“APO 18”) was submitted in December 2003 seeking approval to mine additional reserves identified in the Switchback Pit area and expand the existing heap leach pad to accommodate approximately 20 million tons of ore. This permit was received in mid 2004; however, the Company has delayed the decision to expand the leach pad pending further analysis expected in mid 2005. An environmental assessment and third party cost estimate has been prepared and completed. This document will be used as the basis for the accounting of the Company’s reclamation liabilities on a going forward basis. Any development of additional reserves will require additional amendments.
We are required to maintain reclamation bonds covering the costs of reclaiming all disturbances at our mines as established by regulatory authorities from time to time. Bonding requirements for the Florida Canyon Mine were met by the following bond instruments:
The first two reclamation bonds totaling $17,456,130 were issued by Safeco Insurance Company of America (“Safeco”). In 1999, Safeco cancelled the first bond in the amount of $16,936,130; however, prior to the effective date of cancellation, the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada entered a declaratory judgment holding that Safeco’s cancellation does not affect the BLM’s right to treat the bond as remaining “outstanding” as part of the required bonding for the Florida Canyon Mine and that ongoing mining under our plan of operation does not affect Safeco’s obligations under the bond upon eventual completion of mining. In reliance on that judgment, BLM has counted the cancelled Safeco bond towards satisfaction of our bonding requirements and has permitted us to continue to mine both inside and outside the area covered by the cancelled Safeco bond. On May 29, 2003, a not-for-publication memorandum decision was delivered by a three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the U.S. District Court judgment in our favor. Safeco did not file notice of any further appeal within the period permitted, and the District Court judgment has become final and unappealable.
We have not yet made arrangements for meeting increased bonding requirements likely to be imposed in connection with the potential expansion of Florida Canyon.
Like all mine operators, we always face the risk of redetermination of bonding requirements as a result of changes in regulatory agency assumptions and methodology used to establish bonding requirements, and there can be no assurance that our bond requirements will remain the same.
As of December 31, 2004, we estimate accrued closure costs at the Florida Canyon Mine to be an aggregate of $12.8 million. This amount corresponds with a third party study. Following approval of APO 18, internal closure costs are estimated to increase by approximately $1.8 million, to include the bonding of the Switchback pit, and a trust fund to monitor groundwater quality.
Development Drilling
In the first quarter of 2004, we completed 28 reverse circulation drill holes at Florida Canyon Mine, totaling 6,400 feet. The holes were targeted at up-dip expansions of mineralization from the Northeast Extension pit. Parts of this area contain ore grade material that can be mined in the future. In addition, during the first and second quarters of 2004, seven drill holes were completed in Ikes, totaling 2,050 feet. Further evaluation is necessary to determine where the pit boundaries lie in this area.
Standard Mine
Overview
Apollo acquired the Standard Mine in June of 2002. In May 2004, the necessary operating permits for our Standard Mine were received and mine construction began immediately thereafter. The main access road, heap leach pad, ponds, and water supply system were completed by the end of the third quarter. In the fourth quarter of 2004, processing systems and initial mine development were completed and heap leaching commenced. In the first quarter 2005, the loading of the pad will be increased and the project should be in
commercial production in the second quarter 2005. Total capital spending at the Standard Mine in 2004 was $9.01 million ($10.6 with reclamation bonding costs). The mine is operated in conjunction with our Florida Canyon operation where the carbon is stripped, gold produced, and administrative costs are shared.
Location
The Standard Mine is located approximately five miles south of the Florida Canyon Mine near Winnemucca, Nevada. Generally, the Standard Mine pits are side hill access, not deep, and do not require an in-pit ramp system.
Production
The Standard Mine poured its first ounce of gold in late December 2004 and is expected to reach commercial production in the second quarter of 2005, achieving an estimated 30,000 to 40,000 ounces of gold for the year 2005. Production is expected to increase during the year, as more ore is placed on the leach pad and leaching increases.
Description of Land, Process, and Equipment
The land that we own or lease at the Standard Mine covers a total of 6,087 acres, and fee lands total 1,927 acres. We also maintain 208 unpatented claims that total 4,160 acres. The initial phase of mine development is all located on private land owned by Apollo Gold. The mine has one absorption plant at the heap leach pad area and trucks the loaded carbon to our Florida Canyon operation for further processing to produce doré. The mine runs five 150 ton haul trucks and one front end loader, plus additional support equipment. Apollo leases or owns all of the equipment and it is all in good working condition.
Mineral Reserves at Standard Mine
The Standard Mine deposits are similar to those of the Florida Canyon Mine. Please refer to the section titled “Mineral Reserves at Florida Canyon Mine” for more information.
The Standard Mine reserves include the remaining material from several pits with prior mining activity dating back to the 1950s as well as some new areas that have not been mined. The pits for the new areas were designed using Whittle pit optimization at $400/ounce gold price to complete the design, and cut off grades based on $375/ounce gold price to determine reserves. The Standard Mine reserves at December 31, 2004 are as disclosed in the table below. The definitions are ascribed by the CIM, Metallurgy and Petroleum and guidelines adopted by CIM Council on August 20, 2000 and the SEC Industry Guide 7 definitions of Proven and Probable reserves.
Our reserve estimates were prepared by Mine Development Associates. The following chart shows the Standard Mine reserves at December 31, 2004.
Average run of mine recoveries of 65% gold and 25% silver were used in the reserve evaluation.
The holding costs of Standard Mine include annual payments on 208 unpatented mining claims. These claims are administered by the BLM and the annual cost is $20,800.
Environmental
As of December 31, 2004, we estimate accrued closure costs at the Standard Mine to be an aggregate of $1.6 million. The bonding is covered by an insurance policy for up to $6 million in disturbance.
The bonding requirements for the Standard Mine development project were met by the following bond instruments:
The bonding requirement has increased by a material amount upon approval of the Standard Mine area permit applications that were approved in May of 2004. The Company has contracted with AIG Insurance Co. through their agents, JCH Insurance Brokers to insure the reclamation at the Standard Mine. Insurance policy NO. EPP 778 3897 was issued in May of 2004. This contract has an eight year term for up to $6.0 million in reclamation insurance. The Company will finance the payment of this insurance and related premiums for the three years beginning in May of 2004. The first payment of $1.4 million has been paid with corresponding payments of $1.1 million due in May of 2005 and 2006.
Development Drilling
We are engaged in developmental drilling in five areas around the Standard Mine: Buffalo Canyon, High Standard, North Pit, South Pit, and Star. In addition, we expect to begin developmental drilling at Valerie, a sixth area at the Standard Mine, in the future.
The following table discloses the Standard Mines drilling totals for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Buffalo Canyon
A phase 1 drilling program was completed at the Buffalo Canyon Target during November/ December, 2003 testing three targets: 1) the southward extension of South Pit-style mineralization called the “Northern Target”; 2) a southeastward continuation of mineralization along the Humboldt City Thrust Fault called the “Eastern Target” and 3) the faulted and folded, iron-stained platy limestone above the Humboldt City Thrust Fault called the “Central Target”. A phase 2 drilling program focusing on the Northern Target began February 2004 and was completed during the first quarter. This phase included 17 holes totaling 7,170 feet. This drilling supports the working geologic model. Zones of silicification and alteration, at the thrust fault, separate silty limestone in the upper plate from carbonaceous limestone basement in the lower plate. Sporadic mineralized zones are associated with the thrust. The thrust fault dips more steeply to the west in this area than it does north of the South Pit where it is folded into a synform.
Although the thrust fault at Buffalo Canyon is an important target, the primary target for thicker zones of mineralization is in the upper plates which is strongly gold mineralized at the South Pit. At Buffalo Canyon, upper plate mineralization is hosted by steeply dipping splays off the thrust fault. We have not found the broader and thicker gold mineralized zones as are found to the north. Further drilling will be needed in this area.
High Standard
Twenty-eight drill sites were located and constructed. The objective of the drilling program was to expand upon a small Whittle pit based on previous drilling and to test new targets along a S30W shear zone which trends onto Section 1, east of Buffalo Canyon. This drilling has established the main north-northwest trend of mineralization and established edges for parts of the zone. The completed resource model for High Standard was used to complete Whittle pit studies and “Due To” analysis. Initial bottle roll tests from High Standard suggested a higher recovery of 83.8%.
North Pit
The 2004 drilling program was 5 holes totaling 1,540 feet.
South Pit
Drilling was initiated in the first quarter on the projected extension of mineralization on the north edge of the South Pit. Drilling indicated a continuation of the jasperoid zone. The mineralization is shallower to the north as the zone seems to be ramping up and topography is dropping. Phase two drilling at South Pit commenced in late June 2004 and traced the extension of the mineralized zone to the north. Two styles of mineralization are found to converge in this area; thrust fault-related silicification at the contact between Natchez Pass Limestone and Prida Formation footwall and Cordex-style mineralization at the Grass Valley Formation/ Natchez Pass Limestone contact.
Star Deposit
Forty-three drill sites were located and constructed. The objective of the program was to expand the reserve and test some peripheral targets. The majority of the holes penetrating 5 to 30 feet of 0.01x opt Au at the mineralized contact between argillite and limestone basement. The completed resource model for Star was used to complete Whittle pit studies and “Due To” analysis. Bottle roll tests from Star appear to be consistent with other areas at Standard (63.6% recovery).
Valerie
Thirty-five drill logs from the 1983-1984 Pegasus projects were relogged based on Standard Mine lithology codes and entered into the Gemcom data base along with assays and 10 foot bench composites, the results of which indicate sufficient gold to warrant a future drilling program of 16 holes to confirm the data.
Montana Tunnels Mine
Location
The Montana Tunnels Mine is an open pit poly-metallic mine located about five miles west of Jefferson City, Montana and has been operated since 1987. Apollo purchased the Montana Tunnels Mine in June 2002. The Montana Tunnels Mine is located in the historic “Wickes-Corbin” mining district in Section 8 of Township 7 North, Range 4 West, while the permit boundary covers portions of Section 4, 5, 8, 9, 15, 16, 17, and 20.
Production
For the year ended December 31, 2004, a total of 33,743 ounces of gold and 970,751 ounces of silver were produced. When in full production, over the past five years, the Montana Tunnels Mine has produced
approximately 70,000 ounces of gold, 20,000 tons of zinc, 8,500 tons of lead and 1,200,000 ounces of silver annually. We recently completed waste stripping at Montana Tunnels, which is expected to extend the life of the mine into 2007. In the future, we expect production to be closer to historical averages.
The following table sets forth annual production levels for gold, silver, lead and zinc at the Montana Tunnels Mine since 2002.
Description of Land, Geology, Process and Equipment
About half of Section 8 lands are our owned fee lands. Mining claims that cover the pit are listed in table below.
We own or lease an aggregate of 5,023.2 acres in fee and patented lands at the Montana Tunnels Mine. The property consists of 136 wholly or partially owned patented claims (2,345.14 acres), three patented leased claims (45.19 acres) which we hold pursuant to a mining lease expiring on March 19, 2014, and 2,632.87 acres of owned fee lands. All patented claims and fee lands have been surveyed. In addition, 213 unpatented claims are maintained (4,260 acres). We estimate that 90% of the unpatented claims have been surveyed. A number of claims outside the contiguous mining claims and fee land are isolated.
None of the Montana Tunnels Mine reserves are subject to royalties, but we do have three leased claims that contain mineralization which will be subject to a 4.5% net smelter return royalty if they are mined. The annual holding costs of Montana Tunnels Mine lands, exclusive of property taxes, total approximately $47,000 as disclosed in the table below.
The Montana Tunnels Mine deposit is hosted in the central part of the Montana Tunnels Mine diatreme, an upward-sloping passage forced through sedimentary rock by volcanic activity. The Montana Tunnels Mine diatreme is a heterolithic breccia, characterized by a sand-size fragmented matrix of quartz latitic composition surrounding subangular to well-rounded fragments of Cretaceous Elkhorn Mountains Volcanics, Tertiary Lowland Creek Volcanics, and clasts derived from the Cretaceous Butte Quartz Monzonite pluton.
There are two main zones of mineralization in the Montana Tunnels Mine: a central, pipe-like core of contiguous mineralization, and discontinuous zones of mineralization peripheral to the core deposit, termed fringe mineralization. The core of the deposit in plan view is oblong in shape and ranges from about 200 feet to 1000 feet in width, and from 1400 to 2000 feet in length, with a vertical extent of at least 2000 feet. The core zone strikes approximately N30 E and dips steeply (60 degrees to 80 degrees) to the northwest. Metallurgical projections are based on historical feed grade versus tails grade trends; mill throughput tonnage; ore properties relative to pit location and bench elevation; and ore blending requirements.
The mine has three hydraulic shovels and runs fifteen 150-ton haul trucks and five 85-ton haul trucks plus additional support equipment. The beneficiation plant includes a primary and a secondary crusher. We are currently operating a 16,500-ton per day flotation plant (upgraded in 2003 and 2004) and open pit mine at Montana Tunnels. All of the equipment at Montana Tunnels is in good condition.
Open pit mining at Montana Tunnels Mine is conducted 24 hours per day seven days per week with an equipment fleet either leased, owned or being purchased under installment notes. The Montana Tunnels Mine produces approximately 15% of its annual gold production in the form of doré, which is then further refined. The remainder of the mine’s production is in the form of concentrates: a zinc-gold concentrate and a lead-gold concentrate. The concentrates are shipped to a smelter and, after smelting charges, we are paid for the metal content. Currently, mine production averages approximately 60,000 tons per day of ore and waste, of which 16,500 tons per day of ore is shipped to the crusher. The plant uses a conventional flotation process to produce lead and zinc concentrates. Gold and silver are also recovered using a gravity circuit and refined at the plant to produce a doré.
Flotation is a process used to concentrate the grade of the sulfide ore material to allow the economic shipment of higher grade material to a smelter. The flotation process uses chemicals that are added to the crushed and milled ore and waste slurry. The concentrate that is created rises to the surface and overflows while the waste material sinks to the bottom of a tank. The concentrate is collected and dried and then shipped to a smelter. The waste material is collected and becomes the tailing material which is deposited in the tailing impoundment at the mine site.
Gravity concentration is a process used to separate materials that have significantly different densities. Gravity separation is especially useful with gold recovery since gold is a very dense material.
Gold and silver doré is shipped to Johnson Matthey in Salt Lake City, Utah for further refining, and our lead and zinc concentrates are shipped to Teck Cominco Metals Ltd. in British Columbia, Canada. The smelter that we use is in reasonable proximity to our mine; if we used a different smelter, we would incur additional transportation costs.
The Montana Tunnels Mine was idle for approximately four months in 2002, while we removed waste rock under our Phase I stripping program. Limited production resumed in October 2002, and full production on the K-Pit resumed in April 2003. Since that time, the Montana Tunnels Mine has experienced pit wall problems, that have resulted in significant changes to the mine plan, including an accelerated Phase II stripping schedule to remove 25 million tons of material that slid off the southwest pit wall. With the completion of Phase II in December 2004, the mine is expected to have a three year mine life and more typical gold production levels.
Monitoring of the pit walls continued throughout 2004 and old monitoring instrumentation was removed to allow mining activity and three new GPS stations were re-established at the crest of the new cut in the east sector. Two new GPS monitoring stations were also installed in the vicinity of the mine operations offices. The new stations indicate minimal creep movement. The deterioration is expected to be manageable as it will occur over a relatively longer period of time than we have seen in previous laybacks in this sector because of the flatter overall slope design. The slope above the haul ramp continued its steady movement pattern, typical of the type of movement experienced in this sector in the past.
In the upper south sector six new prism monitoring instruments were placed in the lower portion of this wall in October 2004. No discernible movement trend is evident in the monitoring instrumentation.
Model Reconciliation
During 2004, in an effort to supply the mill with feed, larger ore zones of a lower grade were mined, most of it outside of our modeled zones. The reconciliation to the model was skewed as long as we mined large amounts of low grade outside the model to supply mill feed. This was complicated by the fact that the mill produces more gold than mine sampling can detect. Generally we mined the ounces of gold we predicted but we mined many more tons of low grade ore to produce that gold than the model predicted.
The following table summarizes the reconciliation for the year ended December 31, 2004.
Mineral Reserves
Our reserve estimates were prepared by Mine Development Associates. The following table shows the Montana Tunnels Mine reserves at December 31, 2004.
(1)
Recovery rates are expected to be 75% for gold, 75% for silver, 85% for lead, and 85% for zinc.
Reserves are determined utilizing an Internal Net Block Value (“INBV”) calculation with the proven and probable blocks in the model. The INBV applies all costs with the exception of mining costs against the metal value of a modeled block. If the recovered metal value from a block meets or exceeds the direct costs assigned to each ton, the block is assigned the positive dollar value and counted as ore. On average, all ore tons must be worth at least $5.46, the internal cutoff value. The INBV formula is a function of revenues for gold/silver/ lead/zinc, mill and smelting recoveries for each individual metal, less treatment charges and all
site costs, with the exception of mining. For the year-end 2004 reserves, the INBV formula is based on the following metal prices:
The following table shows mill recoveries for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.
Environmental
In 1998, the citizens of Montana passed Initiative I-137, which banned cyanide leach processing of gold and silver. This initiative was upheld in the election of 2004. We believe Initiative I-137 will have minimal, if any, impact on our mine located in Montana. Although we use cyanide in our leaching processes, the cyanide is not used in a manner prohibited by Initiative I-137. In addition, we have a permit to utilize cyanide in our leaching process at our Diamond Hill Mine. As of the date hereof, we are not aware of any other state or local regulation that would have a material impact on our operations.
Our current tailings dam is permitted to accommodate tailings from the 19.6 million ton combined ore reserved from Pits K and L, which are currently scheduled to be mined out in the second quarter of 2007. Further, if we receive approval from the Montana Department of Environmental Quality of our expansion plans, we plan to renew a phased lifting of our tailings dam to accommodate processing of an additional 28.7 million ore tons which would result from such expansion plans.
The bonding requirements for the Montana Tunnels Mine were met by the following bond instruments:
Our obligations to reimburse TD Canada Trust for any drawing under the letter of credit are secured by our maintenance of an amount equal to the amount available for drawing in a deposit account pledged to TD
Canada Trust. We pay an annual letter of credit fee equal to 1% of the amount available for drawing. We earn interest on the deposit account at a rate established by TD Canada Trust from time to time.
National Fire Insurance Company of Hartford, a unit of Continental Casualty Company (“CNA”), provides $14,987,688 of the total reclamation bonding for the Montana Tunnels Mine plan of operations at a deferred bond premium cost of $14 per $1,000 of bonding under a Term Bonding Agreement dated as of August 1, 2002.
Bonding requirements are subject to adjustment by the State of Montana for various reasons from time to time. As noted above, the bonding requirement for the Montana Tunnels Mine increased from $15,413,297 to $15,888,955 over the course of 2004.
Drilling
As of December 31, 2004, the Montana Tunnels Mine database contains 896 reverse circulation, rotary, core and blasthole drill holes, totaling 470,299 feet, that were drilled from the mid-1970s to the present by numerous mining and exploration companies.
From 2002 through 2004 thirteen reverse-circulation holes for 11,000 feet were drilled as part of a larger program to increase confidence levels in the M2-Pit reserve. The drill holes were placed as mine development phases provided locations to collar specific holes. Results from both the 2002 and 2004 drilling programs were favorable, providing a higher degree of definition to the current ore reserve and established the geometric distribution of the polymetallic grade mineralization in the M pit design. The drilling continued to increase confidence level in the down dip reserve base within the hanging wall portion of the M-pit reserve below Clancy Creek. With the addition of the new drilling, the model was updated in 2004.
Five of the most recent development holes drilled in 2004 were completed as pit development logistics provided suitable and economically practical collar sites. Additional development drilling is planned in 2005. The in-fill drilling program will consist of approximately 16 drill holes for 8,000 feet. We expect this program will achieve nominal 100’x150’ sample definition on the hanging wall portion of the “core” ore throughout the M2-Pit mineralization.
Gold is analyzed by fire assay methods with a duplicate assay for each sample. Silver, lead, and zinc are analyzed by atomic absorption spectroscopy with a duplicate analysis once every 24 samples and are standard analyzed once every 12 samples. The majority of drill samples are analyzed at our onsite laboratory. Comparison of gold fire assay check samples indicate high sample variance, though the average grade of the check sample datasets, as a whole, agreed closely. There is good correlation between silver, lead, and zinc duplicate samples.
The Montana Tunnels Mine drill hole spacing is generally within the gold variogram range of 30 feet to 140 feet in the core.
Black Fox Project
Overview
On September 9, 2002, we completed the acquisition of certain real estate and related assets of the Glimmer Mine, now known as the Black Fox Project, from Exall Resources Limited and Glimmer Resources Inc. The Glimmer Mine was a former gold producer that ceased operations in May 2001 due to the low price of gold. We paid to Exall and Glimmer an aggregate purchase price consisting of $2 million in cash and an aggregate of 2,080,000 of our common shares. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition, an additional Cdn $3 million is payable to Exall and Glimmer when Black Fox reaches commercial production (defined to mean a minimum of 30 consecutive days of production with an average of 300 tonnes per day, or more, of output).
Following a tender procedure conducted in the third quarter 2004 AMEC, a Canadian engineering company, was awarded the contract to complete a feasibility study on Black Fox during 2005 with completion scheduled for late 2005.
Black Fox is located near Timmins, Ontario and is our only development stage property. The Black Fox development project is located in the Larder Lake Mining District, approximately five miles east of Matheson and 40 miles east of Timmins, Ontario. Lake Abitibi is six miles northwest of the project site. The property encompasses over 1,638 acres within the Hislop and Beatty Townships. The majority of the property is private fee land.
Black Fox sits astride the Destor-Porcupine (DF) Fault System, which is a deep break in the Precambrian rocks of the Abitibi Greenstone Belt. This fault system hosts many of the deposits in the Timmins area. The system regionally strikes east-west and dips variably to the south. Black Fox lies on the southern limb of a large scale fold on a flexure in the DF Fault where the strike changes from east-west to southeast. Folded and altered ultra mafic and mafic are the host rocks for mineralization. Gold occurs as free gold in quartz veining and stockworks in altered ultra mafics and in gold associated with pyrite in altered tholeiitic basalts.
We purchased Black Fox as an advanced exploration project. We believe the potential for the property lies in new ore zones at depth and along strike of the Destor-Porcupine Trend. We are testing the potential of this property in several stages.
In 2004, we focused our exploration efforts on Black Fox. The development and commercialization of the property will require three phases. The first phase, commenced in early 2003, involved a shallow drilling program to test the open pit potential by drilling 297 core holes with depths varying from 200 to 500 meters. As a result of this drilling, we identified proven and probable gold reserves at Black Fox of 457,000 ounces. Upon completion of the first phase, the second phase commenced in February 2004 with a program which required the development of the existing ramp system down to the 235 meter level and the construction of a 913 meter drift to allow drilling of the orebody from underground. During the year, 210 underground holes totaling 41,065 meters were drilled and 105 surface holes were completed, totaling another 43,284 meters. We also began the permitting process for the third phase of the project, which includes the construction phase, and anticipate that this process will require approximately two years based on a plan for combined open pit and underground mining, with on-site milling, at a capacity of 1500 metric tonnes of ore per day at an aggregate estimated cost of approximately $60.0 million.
Mineral Reserves. The Black Fox reserves were developed by completing a pre-feasibility study of developing an open pit mine on the Black Fox property. This study did not consider underground mining as an option; this will be addressed in the 2005 feasibility study.
Pit optimization studies were completed using the following parameters for the deposit.
•
Overburden mining cost - $1.00 per tonne of material;
•
Rock mining cost - $1.25 per tonne of material;
•
Processing cost - $9.00 per tonne ore;
•
General and Administrative cost - $3.50 per tonne ore;
•
Plant gold recovery - 96%;
•
Assume 50% of existing underground workings backfilled with material having a density of 2.0;
•
Pit Slopes - 48 degree overall in rock with ramp; 19 degree overburden.
The result of the pit optimization study illustrates that the size of the ultimate pit does not change much between $300 and $375/oz gold prices, but does increase significantly at $400.
Our reserve estimates were prepared by Mine Development Associates. The following chart shows the Black Fox reserves at December 31, 2004.
Waste includes 12.18 million tonnes of overburden
Recovery of gold is expected to be approximately 97%.
Exploration
As of December 31, 2004, we had completed a total of 398 surface diamond drill holes totaling over 125,898 meters as well as 210 underground holes totaling 41,065 meters giving a to-date total for both of 166,963 meters as shown in the table below.
Our drilling supplemented the data from the 284 surface and 720 underground drill holes drilled by the previous owners. A table of total drill holes is show below.
The objectives for the 2004 surface drilling were: 1) to better define the open pit reserves, 2) to extend our resources along strike 3) to extend resources in the eastern and western extensions of the main structure, bracketing or undercutting known gold-bearing zones and 4) to explore known geophysical targets.
In April 2004, the surface exploration drilling discovered a new orebody in the footwall of the Dester-Porcupine Fault. The discovery hole was based on the extension of an IP anomaly. There are two components to the mineralization, the quartz breccia veins and the massive sulfide mineralization (Pb, Zn, Ag). These appear to be two mineralizing events sharing the same “plumbing system.” Very good gold mineralization is evident within easy reach of our surface rigs and this will be a target for the 2005 drilling program. The system appears to be quite extensive.
Exploration Stage Properties
Huizopa
The Huizopa Project is located in the northern part of the Sierra Madre Gold Belt in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico, near the border with the State of Sonora, and encompasses a block of mining concession claims of approximately 22 sq. km. Huizopa is located about 17 km southwest of the Dolores Project and approximately 33 km to the northeast of the Mulatos Project. Mulatos and Dolores are both multi-million ounce gold-silver deposits owned by other companies that are currently in development. Sporadic shallow underground mining limited to a few high-grade zones was done in the past but no mining has taken place at Huizopa since 1936. The property is very remote and will be accessed initially by helicopter.
Apollo’s initial earn-in for a 51% interest includes a payment of $125,000, issuance of 48,978 shares of Apollo’s common stock, completion of a $3.0 million exploration and drilling program over the next four years, and land payments totaling approximately $2.1 million over the next three years, with $1.7 million due in October 2007. After the initial 51% earn-in Apollo may earn an additional 10% with the completion of a feasibility study, and a further 10% if Apollo brings the project into commercial production or a net smelter return if it does not. These earn-in arrangements are currently being restructured.
The geology is characterized by a series of parallel, low sulfidation gold-silver, quartz veins hosted by Tertiary-age volcanic rocks. Silver to gold ratios in the veins and from the material on historic mine dumps indicate the Huizopa area hosts an extensive gold-bearing hydrothermal system. Two major parallel quartz vein systems with north trending structures contain many single vein outcrops 7 to 10 meters thick suggesting a series of stacked veins. Strike lengths are over 2.0 km on the property with untested down dip potential. The stratigraphy of the Huizopa area has two sections of relatively mafic lava flows with intercalated volcaniclastics. The dominant strike azimuths of faults are 340° and 160° with dips ranging from vertical to 33°. Most of these structures, including the major faults with associated thick gouge or breccia zones, dip eastward. These east dipping faults are the faults associated with quartz veins, brecciation, and mineralization.
Initial favorable geochemical sampling and field studies by Argonaut Mines in December 2003 were confirmed by a review of the data and a field evaluation by Apollo between February and March 2004.
Mapping of the mining concession began in June 2004 and was substantially completed by September 2004. Results were compiled and transferred to our new topography maps and to our air photos as well as the Mexican government’s Chabacan topographical sheet which has been enlarged from 1:50,000 scale to 1:10,000. Geologic mapping suggests that the faults that host gold-silver mineralization may be more numerous and more continuous than earlier field work indicated. Petrographical examination revealed the presence of native gold, silver, and electrum in many samples and widespread vein features indicative of repeated boiling and explosive brecciation. Overall vein textures are consistent with high-level exposures of epithermal quartz-adularia and/or fault breccia veins.
We also acquired a new claim that completely surrounds the old Huizopa land position and expands our land position to a total of 128 sq. km.
Other Exploration Stage Properties
We also have several exploration stage assets including Willow Creek, Pirate Gold Prospect and the Nugget Field Prospect, each located in Nevada. We also own the Diamond Hill Mine, a shut-down mine located in Montana.
Pirate Gold Prospect
The Pirate Gold Prospect is located approximately 30 miles south of the Florida Canyon Mine on the northern end of the Eugene Mountain range and the Mill City Mining District in Humboldt County, Nevada in T35N, R34E, Section 2l and T35N, R35E, Section 18. The prospect consists of 43 unpatented mining claims and shares many similar attributes with our Florida Canyon Mine, with the most prominent being amounts of visible gold. Intersecting faults and dikes have allowed the formation of very high-grade ore shoots.
The claim block is made up of interbedded phyllite, limestone and sandstone of the Triassic to Jurassic age Auld Lang Syne group. Bedding generally strikes northeast, with dips being variable. Quaternary alluvium covers most of the flat areas and the valley. High angle northeast and northwest trending faults transect the project area. In the southern part of the Eugene Mountains, near the Stank Mine, the Stank Fault occurs. It strikes northwest and is reported to dip at approximately 45 degrees to the southwest in underground exposures. It has been interpreted as being a thrust fault.
Gold occurs in veins that range in width from one to 20 feet. The gangue, or base rock in which the gold is found, is quartz and calcite, with multiple stages of mineralization being visible.
There has been previous production at Pirate. Four tunnels access several small ore shoots. A small amount of development waste rock exists in the dump of the lower adit. It appears that nearly all of the material mined in the upper three adits was direct shipping ore, as virtually no waste dump material exists. The upper adits access a stope which daylights to the surface. This stope is estimated to have an average width of 15 feet and to be 50 feet in both height and length. This would indicate that approximately 2,700 tons of high-grade material was removed. Abundant visible gold can still be panned from ore material remaining on the stope wall. It is estimated that this material would grade multiple ounces of gold per ton. There are a series of other similar stopes that have been mined but are not currently accessible. A second high-grade vein was exposed in a bulldozer cut, located approximately 500 feet east of the adits. This second vein indicates the likelihood of a series of subparallel mineralized veins in this area. Substantial specimens of free gold (gold nuggets found on the ground) from this site have been recovered by predecessor owners. Visible gold was also present in the upper portions of some of the larger mines near this property.
We believe that the high-grade veins seen on the surface may be an indication of a much larger system at depth. The rocks exposed on the surface are phyllites. The phyllites could form bulk tonnage gold deposits if they were first silicified and then shattered. A low-angle intrusive would make an effective cap to the mineralizing fluids. Over-pressuring of the system and subsequent breakage of the cap would cause wide spread silicification and gold mineralization of the phyllites. Repeated brecciation, boiling and rehealing of the cap would form a large high-grade deposit. We believe the high-grade veins at the surface would only be indications of the feeding structures at depth.
Nugget Field Prospect
Nugget Field is located in Nevada approximately 30 miles southwest of the Pirate Gold Prospect, on the east side of the Majuba Mountains, within the Antelope Mining District. Thirty-two unpatented lode mining claims have been located in T32N, R32E, Section 18.
The rocks surrounding the Nugget Field are principally Triassic age slates and phyllites. Faults trending northeast and northwest have been documented to offset the sediments. Pre-tertiary age dacite and diorite dikes and sills have intruded the area. The project area is mostly covered by quaternary alluvium. The alluvium has been the host for abundant placer gold.
The gold that has been historically recovered often still shows crystals and other delicate textures. It is apparent that the gold has traveled very little, if at all. The claim block lies on a paleo-shoreline of ancient Lake Lahontan in the Great Basin, Nevada, which was once a large body of water but is now nearly dried up. The gold was probably weathered from portions of the underlying rocks and deposited nearby.
Willow Creek Prospect
Willow Creek is located in the east range of Pershing County, Nevada. In 2003, two and one-half square miles were staked at Willow Creek in the East Range in Pershing County, Nevada, including the E1/2 of Section 10, Section 14 and Section 11, T31N, R36W. In 2004 we acquired the SW1/4 of Section 11, T31N, R36W containing the Wadley Mine giving us 23/4 square miles of mineral rights in the Willow Creek Mining District.
Willow Creek is underlain by thrust-faulted (Willow Creek Thrust) early Paleozoic sedimentary rocks which have been intruded by mid-Mesozoic granodiorite. All units have been cut by late Tertiary diabase sills and dikes.
Gold was discovered in the District in the 1860’s. Rich placers were extensively worked from 1938 to 1964 downstream from the Wadley Mine. Production from the Wadley Mine was reported as very high grade (1 ounce of gold per pound) from thin veins associated with the Willow Creek Thrust. Historical production from Willow Creek is estimated at anywhere from 2,832 ounces of gold to as high as 10,000 ounces of gold.
On the property, strong northeast trending faults can be seen intersecting strong north trending faults, one of which cuts through the Wadley Mine and continues south through Sections 14 and 24. These intersections projected down to the more favorable Comus Formation host rocks at depth and are our principal exploration targets. There is a large window into the lower plate Comus Formation on our property indicating Comus at depth. The Comus is intruded by a small plug of dacite porphyry with associated northeast trending dikes. The Comus limestones are black and sooty with carbon. Small amounts of quartz/limonite stockwork veining were evident and we believe this an excellent host rock.
Geologic mapping, sampling and target definition is planned for late in 2005 for this new exploration project.
Diamond Hill
Diamond Hill is an underground gold mine and is located approximately 28 miles southeast of Helena, Montana, in Broadwater County and on the east flank of the Elkhorn Mountains, within the Hassel Mining District. Diamond Hill was in production from 1996 to 2000 when operations ceased. During that period, 775,000 tons of ore were mined at an average grade of 0.233 ounces of gold per ton.
Diamond Hill covers over 2,590 acres of patented and unpatented claims. We have 100% ownership of the main patented claims that contain the current deposits, subject to a 0.5 to 1% net smelter return and a 10% net profits royalty. We also have 50% ownership of four additional patented claims, which are peripheral to the main land package. As of December 31, 2004, we hold 103 unpatented claims and lease 19 unpatented claims. The current mine permit covers 270 acres with most of the disturbance within a 27-acre area.
The Diamond Hill orebodies and mine workings are in solid unfractured rock and accordingly are amenable to low cost sublevel open stoping methods. Ore was transported to the Montana Tunnels mill facility by truck where it was processed in a separate circuit designed for Diamond Hill ore. Most of the gold was recovered into a high grade pyrite concentrate and sold to Japanese smelters.
The deposit is classed as a skarn hosted sulfide deposit where the predominant ore mineralogy is gold associated with pyrite and lesser other metal sulfides. The bonding requirements for Diamond Hill total about $623,000.
ITEM 3.