ITEM 2. DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
Maps of Operations and Properties
The maps below show the locations of the Montana Tunnels mine, the Black Fox project and the Huizopa project in North America. These properties are described in further detail below.
Figure - Property locations in North America
- -
Montana Tunnels Mine
The mine was originally owned, constructed and operated in 1987 by Pegasus Gold (“Pegasus”), a mining company incorporated in Canada. In 1998, Pegasus filed for bankruptcy and in 2002, Apollo purchased Montana Tunnels Mining, Inc., the owner and operator of the Montana Tunnels mine.
Figure - Montana Tunnels mine location in Montana, U.S.
- -
Location
The Montana Tunnels mine is an open pit, poly-metallic mine and mill located about five miles west of Jefferson City, Montana. The mine is located in the historic “Wickes-Corbin” mining district in Section 8 of Township 7 North, Range 4 West, Jefferson County. The mine’s elevations range from 5,200 to 6,300 feet with moderately mountainous topography that is cut by conveyers with steeper slopes. The mine is easily accessible by way of interstate highway and paved roads. The mine and mill receive power supply from Northwestern Energy from overland power lines.
Production
For the year ended December 31, 2005, a total of 44,682 ounces of gold, 544,613 ounces of silver, 10,428,061 lbs of lead and 22,380,136 lbs of zinc were produced. Most of this production was from modeled and unmodeled “fringe” ores mined from the open pit through mid October, 2005.
Mining was suspended mid October 2005 as a result of pit wall instability in September and early October 2005 along the upper East Wall of the open pit. The instability is the result of a complex interaction between relatively weak, altered Lowland Creek Volcanic (LCV) rock units, steeply dipping faults and joints, and occasional zones of relatively less altered and more competent sub-vertical rock zones. Toppling type displacement patterns were evident where the more resistant rock outcrops within weak, sheared LCV rock units on the upper East Wall. The pattern of displacements that occurred during September and October 2005 was consistent with previous slope performance when active mining unloads the toe of the slope.
The on-going slope deformations resulted in too steep a slope between the ramps and weakening of the rock mass, creating localized instabilities along the haul ramp that reduced ramp width and increased the frequency of rock falls. We therefore decided on October 22, 2005, for safety reasons, to cease mining and retain a third party consultant to review mine design criteria and determine scenarios under which mining the pit could safely resume.
The consultant focused on geotechnical issues associated with the East Wall area and upper access ramp location for the open pit, completing its work in late November. The consultant developed several alternative mine designs and plans for ramp relocation, unloading the upper benches and remediation. Each plan calls for additional unloading of up to 4.6 million tons from upper benches of the East Wall to mitigate rock fall hazards by reducing slope deformation and rock mass degradation in the weak rock units exposed along the upper East Wall. The plans also call for a new, wider haul ramp to reduce the potential for haul ramp instability along the East Wall. In addition, mining practices would be changed to increase the rate at which upper benches are unloaded during mining operations. The estimated cost of completing the East Wall remediation, waste material removal, ramp relocation and widening is approximately $12 million.
Since the open pit mine operations were suspended, the mill has been producing gold doré and lead-gold and zinc-gold concentrate from low grade ore stockpiles. On January 31, 2006, we gave a Workers Adjustment and Retraining Notification (“WARN”) Act Notice to all hourly and salaried Montana Tunnels Mining, Inc. employees. The WARN Act requires companies to give employees 60 days’ notice prior to a plant shutdown or mass layoff. We now expect to postpone a mass layoff until late April 2006 as we continue to mill low grade stockpiled ore. In March 2006 the Company adopted a plan to dispose of the Montana Tunnels mine. The following table sets forth annual production levels for gold, silver, lead and zinc at the Montana Tunnels mine since 2003.
Montana Tunnels Mine Production History
In 2006 the Montana Tunnels mine continues to produce metals by milling low grade ore stockpiles and plans to continue through the end of April 2006. Production at Montana Tunnels is not currently cash positive. The revenue generated does pay for the variable cost of production and contributes to the fixed costs of the mine. In March 2006, the Company adopted a plan to dispose of the Montana Tunnels mine.
The mine produced the following aggregate amounts of the listed metals from its inception in 1987 through December 31, 2005.
- -
Description of Land, Geology, Process and Equipment
About half of Section 8 lands are our owned fee lands. Mining claims that cover the pit are listed in the table below.
Claims Covering Montana Tunnels Mine
We own or lease an aggregate of 5,088 acres in fee and patented lands at the Montana Tunnels mine. The property consists of 139 wholly or partially owned patented claims (2,413.42 acres), three patented leased claims (45.19 acres) which we hold pursuant to a mining lease expiring on March 19, 2014, and 2,629.44 acres of owned fee lands. All patented claims and fee lands have been surveyed. In addition, 213 unpatented claims are maintained (4,260 acres). We estimate that 90% of the unpatented claims have been surveyed. A number of claims outside the contiguous mining claims and fee land are isolated.
None of the Montana Tunnels mine’s reserves are subject to royalties, but we do have three leased claims that contain mineralization, which will be subject to a 4.5% net smelter return royalty if they are mined. The annual holding costs of the Montana Tunnels properties, exclusive of property taxes, total $52,582.
The Montana Tunnels deposit is hosted in the central part of the diatreme, an upward-sloping passage forced through sedimentary rock by volcanic activity. The diatreme is a heterolithic breccia, characterized by a sand-size fragmented matrix of quartz latitic composition surrounding subangular to well-rounded fragments of Cretaceous Elkhorn Mountains Volcanics, Tertiary Lowland Creek Volcanics, and clasts derived from the Cretaceous Butte Quartz Monzonite pluton.
There are two main zones of mineralization at Montana Tunnels: (i) a central, pipe-like core of contiguous mineralization, and (ii)discontinuous zones of mineralization peripheral to the core deposit, termed fringe mineralization. The core of the deposit in plan view is oblong in shape and ranges from about 200 feet to 1000 feet in width, and from 1400 to 2000 feet in length, with a vertical extent of at least 2000 feet. The core zone strikes approximately N30 E and dips steeply (60 degrees to 80 degrees) to the northwest. Metallurgical projections are based on historical feed grade versus tails grade trends; mill throughput tonnage, ore properties relative to pit location and bench elevation; and ore blending requirements.
Prior to suspending mining in October 2005, open pit mining at Montana Tunnels was normally conducted 24 hours per day seven days per week. Mining was performed by two shovels, eight 150 ton and two 85 ton haul trucks in addition to ancillary equipment. While fully operational, mine production averaged approximately 40,000 tons per day of ore and waste.
- -
When in full production we use a primary and secondary crusher, in series, to generate a coarse ore stockpile ahead of the concentrator. The crusher has a capacity of 16,500 tons per day. The grinding circuit consists of a SAG mill, ball mill and tertiary crusher (SABC circuit) followed by conventional differential flotation. A gravity circuit, in closed loop with the ball mill, recovers 12-15% of gold produced by the concentrator. The remainder of the mill’s production is in the form of concentrates: a zinc-gold concentrate and a lead-gold-silver concentrate. The dried concentrates are shipped, via rail, to a smelter. The original plant was constructed during 1986 and 1987, and is currently in good working order. In 2004, we increased mill capacity from 15,000 tons per day to 16,500 tons per day with the addition of a primary crusher.
Model Reconciliation
During 2005, in an effort to supply the mill with feed, larger ore zones of a lower grade were mined, most from outside of the modeled zones. The reconciliation to the model was skewed due to mining such large amounts of low grade ore outside the model to supply mill feed. In addition, the mill produces more gold than mine sampling can detect. Generally mined ounces of gold were as predicted but mined tons were higher and ore tons were lower.
The following table summarizes the reconciliation for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Summary of Operational Statistics for the Year Ended December 31,
Note: The above comparison is for production through mid-October 2005.
- -
Mineral Reserves
The table below shows the mineral reserves at Montana Tunnels.
Montana Tunnels Mine Reserve Statement at December 31, 2005(1)(2)
(1) Recovery rates are expected to be 80% for gold, 71% for silver, 85% for lead, and 84% for zinc.
(2) In March 2006 the Company adopted a plan to dispose of the Montana Tunnels mine.
Environmental
The permitted plan of operations allows mining of ore reserves from the L-Pit mine design. Unstable pit walls in the ramp sector on the east side of the mine closed down the open pit in October 2005, however, milling operations have continued processing stockpiled low grade ore. A pit wall layback and pit ramp reconstruction in the east sector of the open pit was subsequently developed using extensive geotechnical analysis to ensure stability and safety for ongoing mining operations. A permit revision for the pit wall layback and associated changes was approved by the Department of Environmental Quality in December 2005.
A major mine plan amendment (M-Pit) continues to progress through an Environmental Impact Statement permitting process. Approval for the M-Pit mine by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Bureau of Land Management will provide approximately 28 million tons of additional ore for processing.
The bonding requirements for the Montana Tunnels mine are met by the following bond instruments:
National Fire Insurance Company of Hartford, a unit of Continental Casualty Company (“CNA”), provides $14,987,688 of the total reclamation bonding for the Montana Tunnels mine plan of operations at a deferred bond premium cost of $14 per $1,000 of bonding under a Term Bonding Agreement dated August 1, 2002.
- -
Bonding requirements are subject to adjustment by the State of Montana for various reasons from time to time. As noted above, the bonding requirement for the Montana Tunnels mine increased from $15,888,955 to $16,381,278 during 2005 as the result of a minor revision to the operating permit and a bond inflation adjustment.
Black Fox Project
Figure - Black Fox project location along Destor-Porcupine Fault Zone in Province of Ontario, Canada
- -
Location
The Black Fox project is located approximately five miles east of the township of Matheson and 40 miles east of Timmins, Ontario, Canada. Lake Abitibi is six miles northwest of the project site. The property encompasses over 1,983 acres within the Hislop and Beatty Townships. Access and surface rights are owned solely by Apollo. The property is easily accessible by interstate highway and power is supplied by Hydro One.
The Black Fox property was formerly known as the Glimmer mine. In April 1996, Exall Resources Ltd. (“Exall”) purchased 60% of the property from Hemlo Gold Inc., and Glimmer Resource Inc. (“Glimmer”) held the remaining 40%.
In September, 2002, we purchased all of the real estate and related assets of the Glimmer Mine from Exall and Glimmer. The mine, which ceased operations in May 2001, was renamed Black Fox. Apollo paid Exall and Glimmer an aggregate purchase price consisting of Cdn$3 million in cash and an aggregate of 2,080,000 of our common shares. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition, an additional Cdn$3 million was payable to Exall and Glimmer. See subsequent event Note 21 of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements”.
Black Fox sits astride the Destor-Porcupine Fault Zone (DPFZ), which is a deep break in the Precambrian rocks of the Abitibi Greenstone Belt. This fault system hosts many of the deposits in the Timmins area. The system regionally strikes east-west and dips variably to the south. Black Fox lies on the southern limb of a large scale fold on a flexure in the DPFZ Fault where the strike changes from east-west to southeast. Folded and altered ultra mafic and mafic are the host rocks for mineralization. Gold occurs as free gold in quartz veining and stockworks in altered ultra mafics and in gold associated with pyrite in altered tholeiitic basalts.
From until 2001, the mine produced approximately 210,000 ounces of gold. In early 2003, we commenced a drilling program consisting of shallow holes to test the mine’s open pit potential. During 2003, 297 surface core holes were completed with depths varying from 200 to 500 meters. As a result of this drilling, proven and probable open pit gold reserves at Black Fox of 457,000 ounces were identified and we published such reserve estimates in an NI 43-101 report in March 2004.
We are in the process of updating our reserves, and expect to report new reserve estimates, which we expect to include underground reserves, in April 2006 and issue an NI 43-101 report within 45 days of publishing the new reserves.
Property, plant and equipment at the mine consists of an administration office, change house facilities, core sheds and surface infrastructure for the mine (pumps, heating, etc.), all of which are in good working condition, with an aggregate value of $1.0 million.
None of the currently defined reserves are subject to production royalties. However, the Ewen property (155 acres), purchased in 2003, is subject to a 3% net smelter return royalty if in the future any reserves are found on that property.
Mineral Reserves
The reserves reported in an NI 43-101 report in March 2004 of 457,000 ounces of gold were estimated based upon the 2003 exploration program and included a pre-feasibility study of developing an open pit mine on the Black Fox property. This study did not consider underground mining as an option. We report no reserves at Black Fox under SEC Industry Guide 7, which requires a final bankable feasibility study.
- -
Black Fox Reserve Statement at December 31, 2005
Waste includes 12.18 million tons of overburden.
See the proven and probable mineral reserve table in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Exploration and Development 2004
In February 2004, a new drilling program commenced which first required the existing ramp system to be extended down to the 235 meter level and the construction of a 913 meter drift so as to allow drilling of the orebody from underground. During 2004, 210 underground holes totaling 41,065 meters were drilled.
Also in 2004, an additional 105 surface holes were completed, totaling another 43,284 meters. Our objectives for drilling these surface holes were to better define the open pit reserves; extend our resources along strike; extend resources in the eastern and western extensions of the main structure, bracketing or undercutting known gold-bearing zones; and explore known geophysical targets.
In April 2004, through surface exploration drilling we discovered a new orebody in the footwall of the DPFZ. The discovery hole was based on the extension of an induced polarization anomaly. There are two components to the mineralization, the quartz breccia veins and the massive sulfide mineralization (Pb, Zn, Ag). These appear to be two mineralizing events sharing the same “plumbing system.”
Exploration and Development 2005
During 2005 the surface and underground drilling programs continued with a total of surface holes and 160 underground holes being completed. As of December 31, 2005, Apollo had completed a total of 449 surface diamond drill holes, totaling over 135,711 meters as well as 370 underground holes totaling 75,520.7 meters giving a to-date total for both of 211,232.6 meters as shown in the table below.
- -
Drilling at Year Ended December 31, 2005
Apollo’s drilling supplemented the data from the 284 surface and 720 underground drill holes drilled by the previous owners. A table of total drill holes is shown below.
Black Fox Project Drill Hole Database
In 2005, we began the permitting process for the project, which we anticipate will take approximately two years based on a plan for a combined open pit and underground mine with a 1,500 tonnes per day on-site mill. The estimated cost of the mine and mill is approximately $80 million.
Bonding
We met our bonding requirements, established by the Province of Ontario, for the Black Fox project through the following bonding instrument:
The obligations to reimburse TD Canada Trust for any drawing under the letter of credit are secured by Apollo’s maintenance of an amount equal to the amount available for drawing in a deposit account pledged to TD Canada Trust. The annual letter of credit fee is 1% of the amount available for drawing. Interest is earned on the deposit account at a rate established by TD Canada Trust from time to time.
- -
Exploration Stage Properties
Huizopa
We own Mexican subsidiaries which own or have the right to acquire concessions at the Huizopa exploration project. Pursuant to an agreement with the previous owner of one of those Mexican subsidiaries (the “Previous Owner”), if we exercise our right to acquire those concessions at the Huizopa project on which we currently hold an option, one of our Mexican subsidiaries and a Mexican company owned by the Previous Owner will enter into a joint venture agreement governing activities at the Huizopa project going forward, pursuant to which we can elect to ultimately retain up to an 80% interest in the Huizopa project. If our Mexican subsidiary chooses not to go forward with the Huizopa project, it is obligated to transfer a controlling interest in the subsidiary that holds the option back to the Previous Owner, and to transfer 91% of the concessions it owns at the Huizopa project back to the Previous Owner.
The Huizopa project is located in the northern part of the Sierra Madre Gold Belt in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico, near the border with the State of Sonora, and encompasses a block of mining concession claims of approximately 22 sq. km. Huizopa is located about 17 km southwest of the Dolores project and approximately 33 km to the northeast of the Mulatos project. Mulatos and Dolores are both multi-million ounce gold-silver deposits owned by other companies that are currently in development. Sporadic shallow underground mining limited to a few high-grade zones was done in the past but no mining has taken place at Huizopa since 1936. The property is very remote and will be accessed initially by helicopter. During 2004, we acquired new claims that completely surround the old Huizopa land position and, as a result, have expanded our land position to a total of 128 sq. km.
The geology is characterized by a series of parallel, low sulfidation gold-silver, quartz veins hosted by Tertiary-age volcanic rocks. Silver to gold ratios in the veins and from the material on historic mine dumps indicate the Huizopa area hosts an extensive gold-bearing hydrothermal system. Two major parallel quartz vein systems with north trending structures contain many single vein outcrops to 10 meters thick suggesting a series of stacked veins. Strike lengths are over 2.0 km on the property with untested down dip potential. The stratigraphy of the Huizopa area has two sections of relatively mafic lava flows with intercalated volcaniclastics. The dominant strike azimuths of faults are 340º and 160º with dips ranging from vertical to 33º. Most of these structures, including the major faults with associated thick gouge or breccia zones, dip eastward. These east dipping faults are the faults associated with quartz veins, brecciation, and mineralization.
Initial favorable geochemical sampling and field studies by the Previous Owner in December 2003 were confirmed by us when we reviewed the data and conducted a field evaluation between February and March 2004.
Mapping of the mining concession began in June 2004 and continued throughout 2005. The results were compiled and transferred to our new topography maps and air photos as well as the Mexican government’s Chabacan topographical sheet which has been enlarged from 1:50,000 scale to 1:10,000. Geologic mapping suggests that the faults that host gold-silver mineralization may be more numerous and more continuous than earlier field work indicated. Petrographical examination revealed the presence of native gold, silver, and electrum in many samples and widespread vein features indicative of repeated boiling and explosive brecciation. Overall vein textures are consistent with high-level exposures of epithermal quartz-adularia and/or fault breccia veins.
Throughout 2006, we expect to continue mapping, trenching, sampling and conducting geophysical studies on the property, including the selection of several primary targets for drill sites and the commencement of a drilling program. The cost of the project is expected to be approximately $2.3 million for the year 2006.
- -
Diamond Hill
The Diamond Hill mine, which has been on care and maintenance since 2000, is owned by Montana Tunnels Mining, Inc. The mine is an underground gold mine and is located approximately 28 miles southeast of Helena, Montana, in Broadwater County and on the east flank of the Elkhorn Mountains, within the Hassel Mining District. The Diamond Hill mine was in production from 1996 to 2000, during which time, 775,000 tons of ore were mined at an average grade of 0.233 ounces of gold per ton. In March 2006, the Company adopted a plan to dispose of Montana Tunnels Mining, Inc., which owns the Diamond Hill mine.
The Diamond Hill mine covers over 2,590 acres of patented and unpatented claims. We have 100% ownership of the main patented claims that contain the current deposits, subject to a 0.5 to 1% net smelter return and a 10% net profits royalty. We also have 50% ownership of four additional patented claims, which are peripheral to the main land package. As of December 31, 2005, we hold 103 unpatented claims and lease 19 unpatented claims. The current mine permit covers 270 acres with most of the disturbance within a 27 acre area.
The Diamond Hill orebodies and mine workings are in solid unfractured rock and accordingly are amenable to low cost sublevel open stoping methods. Ore was transported to the Montana Tunnels mill facility by truck where it was processed in a separate circuit designed for Diamond Hill ore. Most of the gold was recovered into a high grade pyrite concentrate and sold to Japanese smelters.
The deposit is classed as a skarn hosted sulfide deposit where the predominant ore mineralogy is gold associated with pyrite and lesser other metal sulfides. The bonding requirements for Diamond Hill, totaling approximately $623,000, are incorporated as part of the bonding at Montana Tunnels.
ITEM 3.