ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Maps of Operations and Properties
The maps below show the locations of Black Fox and the Huizopa project in North America. These properties are described in further detail below.
Figure 1 - Property locations in North America
Black Fox
The Black Fox property was formerly known as the Glimmer mine. In April 1996, Exall Resources Ltd. (“Exall”) purchased 60% of the property from Hemlo Gold Inc., and Glimmer Resource Inc. (“Glimmer”) held the remaining 40%.
In September 2002, we purchased all of the real estate and related assets of the mine, which ceased operations in May 2001, from Exall and Glimmer and renamed it “Black Fox”. We paid Exall and Glimmer an aggregate purchase price consisting of Cdn$3.0 million in cash and an aggregate of 2,080,000 of our common shares. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition, an additional Cdn$3 million was paid to Exall and Glimmer on January 6, 2006.
From 1997 until 2001, the mine produced approximately 210,000 ounces of gold from underground workings.
On July 28, 2008, we completed the acquisition from St Andrew Goldfields Ltd. (“St Andrew”) of its Stock Mill and related equipment, infrastructure, property rights, laboratory and tailings facilities, located near Timmins, Ontario for Cdn$20.0 million.
Figure 3 - Black Fox mine and Black Fox mill locations along the Destor-Porcupine Fault Zone in the Province of Ontario, Canada
Location
Black Fox consists of two properties: a mine and a mill. The Black Fox mine is located approximately seven miles east of Matheson, Ontario, Canada. The stock mill complex purchased from St Andrew, which we renamed the Black Fox mill, is located approximately 12 miles west of Matheson, which means that it is approximately 19 miles west of the Black Fox mine site. Both properties are easily accessible by provincial highway and power is supplied by Hydro One.
Property, plant and equipment at the mine consists of an administration office, change house facilities, workshop facilities, core sheds and surface infrastructure for the underground mine (pumps, heating, etc.), all of which are in good working condition. Property, plant and equipment at the Black Fox mill consists of an administrative office, electrical and mechanical shops, laboratory and a 2,000 tonnes per day mill for processing the Black Fox ores. All plant facilities and equipment are in good working order. The mill operations were started in April 2009 and commercial production commenced in late May 2009. Within the mill property, there is also a permitted tailings compound.
The Black Fox mine sits astride the Destor-Porcupine Fault Zone (DPFZ), which is a deep break in the Precambrian rocks of the Abitibi Greenstone Belt. This fault system hosts many of the deposits in the Timmins area. The system regionally strikes east-west and dips variably to the south. Black Fox lies on the southern limb of a large scale fold on a flexure in the DPFZ Fault where the strike changes from east-west to southeast. Folded and altered ultra mafic and mafic are the host rocks for mineralization. Gold occurs as free gold in quartz veining and stockworks in altered ultra mafics and in gold associated with pyrite in altered tholeiitic basalts.
The Black Fox mine consists of 4,529 acres of which: 1,063 acres are leasehold patents, 2,001 acres are owned by Apollo, 319 acres are leased by us, 820 acres where we have surface rights only and 326 acres where we have mineral rights but no surface rights. The 4,529 acres includes property known as Pike River and Grey Fox, which are contiguous to the Black Fox mine property boundaries and stretch two miles southeast of the Black Fox open pit mine.
The Black Fox mill property consists of:
None of the currently defined reserves are subject to production royalties. However, Apollo owns properties totaling 2,164 acres that are subject to net smelter return royalties, ranging from 2.0% to 3.25%, if there is production in the future from any reserves found on that property.
Exploration and Development
From 2003 to 2007, we conducted a drilling program during which we completed a total of 504 surface diamond drill holes totaling 149,548 meters and 396 underground holes totaling 78,644 meters. Apollo’s drilling supplemented the data from the 286 surface and 707 underground drill holes drilled by the previous owners. A table of total drill holes is shown below.
Black Fox Project Drill Hole Database
In addition to the above, 69 holes have been drilled in 2008 and 2009 on the Grey Fox and Pike River properties for a total of 13,651 meters as more fully described under Exploration Stage Properties.
Mineral Reserves
On April 14, 2008, we filed a Canadian National Instrument, NI 43-101 Technical Report, which was prepared to a bankable standard (“bankable feasibility study”). A bankable feasibility study is a comprehensive analysis of a project’s economics (+/- 15% precision) used by the banking industry for financing purposes. The table below summarizes the Black Fox Total Mineral Reserve as of December 31, 2008. The mineral reserves shown in the table below were calculated based on a gold price of $650 per ounce.
Black Fox Probable Reserve Statement as of December 31, 2008
(1) Underground reserves assume 95% mining recovery 17% planned dilution and 5% unplanned dilution both at 0 grams per tonne grade.
The reserve estimates were based on information from 1,893 drill holes totaling 338,842 meters. All assays over 170 grams of gold per tonne (5.5 oz of gold per ton) were capped at this level, which represents 0.25% of the assays.
The estimated reserves presented above were reduced by mining of 632,000 ore tonnes from the Black Fox mine, including 425,000 tonnes at a grade of 3.7 gpt producing 46,621 ounces of gold from the Black Fox mill, with further 5,531 ounces of gold produced from toll processing in 2009.
There was no updated estimation of mineral reserves for the year ended December 31, 2009. This was due mainly to the Company undertaking in late 2009 a comprehensive mine plan re-modeling with tighter constraints and review of the 2010 mine plan as well as the life of mine plan to address the grade variability issue of a certain type of Black Fox ore, which had resulted in an over-projection of grade in part of the open pit ore. This lower grade negatively impacted 2009 gold production, which was lower than expected. The revised mine plan is expected to be completed by the end of the first quarter of 2010. Independent professional mining consultants and our staff determined that the new mine plan requires reconciliation of production against the plan forecasts over the rest of 2010. This will be in conjunction with a continuous improvement effort, benefitted by the mine operating in its first full year of production at a steady state of 2,000 tonnes of ore per day. Such assessment will provide more accurate information regarding mining costs, cut-off grade, and other parameters in the estimation of mineral reserves at the end 2010.
It is expected that the average gold grade of the open pit portion of reserves will decrease from the December 31, 2008 reserve estimate grade due to the anticipated lowering of the average grade in the high grade portion of the open pit and the addition of more low grade tonnes than originally estimated. However, the change in the overall tonnage and contained ounces of open pit reserves will reflect the net effect of any negative adjustment and possible increments from the anticipated underground exploration drilling for resource and reserve additions. The comprehensive review included remodeling of the underground portion of reserves and found less variance (i.e. more consistency) against the 2008 feasibility study. The anticipated start-up of the underground during 2010 will also provide actual production data for reconciliation purposes in the estimation of mineral reserves for the year ended December 31, 2010.
The Company expects to report updated estimated mineral reserves for 2010 in the first quarter of 2011, and on an annual basis thereafter.
Permits
We have received all necessary permits and approvals required for mining activities of phase I of the open pit. In particular, we have received Certified Closure Plan Approval, an Amended Certificate of Approval for Industrial Sewage Works, and a Permit to Take Water (Surface and Ground Water.) The open pit reserves are divided into phase I and phase II and we expect to receive the permits necessary to conduct phase II in the second quarter of 2010.
Process and equipment - Mining Operations
In September 2008 a contract was awarded for the removal of approximately 2 million cubic meters of glacial till material which overlaid phase 1 of the open pit. This stripping contract commenced in October 2008 and by March 2009 progress was sufficient to allow Apollo personnel and equipment to commence the mining of open pit ore and waste. The stripping contract was completed in July 2009.
Open pit mining of ore and waste at Black Fox is conducted 24 hours per day 7 days per week. Mining is performed by two excavators, five CAT 777 85-tonne haul trucks, two CAT D9T dozers, and three drills in addition to ancillary equipment. This mining fleet averages approximately 23,000 tonnes per day (“tpd”) ore and waste. The mining of ore is only done during daylight hours. Ore is crushed to -150 mm at the mine site and is transported to the Black Fox mill by a fleet of contract road trucks.
Process and equipment - Milling Operation
In the third quarter of 2008 an engineering, procurement and construction management (“EPCM”) contract was awarded to GBM Ltd., for the expansion of the Black Fox Mill to increase the throughput from 1,000 tpd up to 2,000 tpd. Commissioning of the mill commenced in March 2009 with the mill commencing the processing of ores during April 2009. The first gold bullion was poured and shipped to the refiner in late May 2009. During the remainder of 2009 the mill throughput rate was increased from the intial 1,500 tpd up to the design capacity of 2,000 tpd which was achieved steadily during the last quarter of 2009.
Ore is crushed to -150 mm at the mine site and is transported to the Black Fox mill by a fleet of contract road trucks. The ore is stockpiled at the mill site and fed via a conveyor system to the crushing circuit, with a crushing capacity of 160 tonnes per hour, where it is further reduced from -150mm through three stages of crushing to -10mm. This crushed product is transferred to a 1,500 tonne fine ore surge bin. The ore is then fed into a grinding circuit at a rate of 2,000 tonnes per operating day through two stages of closed circuit ball milling. Soluble gold is recovered by adsorption upon granular activated carbon in CIC, CIL, and CIP trains at an efficiency of approximately 95%. Elution of adsorbed gold is carried out via pressure Zadra in closed circuit with electro-winning deposition. Gold plate is further refined by induction smelting and cast in 1,000 ounce moulds before shipment to the refiner. After extraction of the gold the ores are discharged into the tailing impoundment area.
The Black Fox Mill also hosts administrative offices, warehousing and storage facilities, mechanical and electrical repair facilities, and a water treatment plant in association with the mill process.
Production
For the year ending December 31, 2009 the open pit produced 4,184,000 tonnes of waste and 631,000 tonnes of ore for a total mined material of 4,815,000 tonnes and a strip ratio of 6.64:1.
For the year ended December 31, 2009 the mill processed 422,000 of ore at an average grade of gold of 3.7 grams/t to produce 46,621 ounces of gold in dore bars. Overall recovery of gold averaged 93%.
In addition to the gold ore processed by the Black Fox mill, 109,000 tonnes of low grade ore was shipped to and processed by the nearby Holt mill, owned by St Andrew. The grade of ore processed was 1.67 grams per tonne with a recovery of approximately 93% and gold production of 5,531 ounces.
Therefore combined gold production from the Black Fox mill and the Holt mill was 52,152 ounces.
Bonding
Closure plans for both the mine and mill sites prepared by AMEC Earth and Environmental, a Division of AMEC Americas Limited, were submitted to and accepted by the Ontario Ministry of Northern Development and Mines (“MNDM”) during 2008. Bonding requirements for each site were set by the MNDN as follows (in Cdn$);
We have met these bonding requirements through letters of credit issued by TD Canada Trust secured by a pledged deposit account of Cdn$14,321,130 and a deposit directly with the MNDM of Cdn$1,231,160. The obligations to reimburse TD Canada Trust for any drawing under the letter of credit are secured by Apollo’s maintenance of an amount equal to the amount available for drawing the above mentioned deposit account pledged to TD Canada Trust. The annual letter of credit fee is 1% of the amount available for drawing. Interest is earned on the deposit account at a rate established by TD Canada Trust from time to time. We expect that there will be additional bonding requirements in connection with an amended closure plan for phase II of the open pit, but we are unable to quantify the amount at this time.
Montana Tunnels Mine
The Montana Tunnels mine was originally owned and operated by Pegasus Gold, a mining company incorporated in Canada. Pegasus commenced operations at the Montana Tunnels mine in 1987 and in 1998, Pegasus filed for bankruptcy. In 2002, we purchased Montana Tunnels Mining, Inc. (“MTMI”), from the receiver in the bankruptcy proceeding.
On July 28, 2006, Apollo entered into a joint venture (“JV Agreement”) with Elkhorn Tunnels LLC (“Elkhorn”), in respect of the Montana Tunnels mine. The JV Agreement called for Elkhorn to contribute $13 million in return for a 50% interest in the Montana Tunnels mine. Apollo was the operator of the mine.
On February 1, 2010, we sold all of the capital stock of Montana Tunnels Mining, Inc., which held our remaining 50% interest in the Montana Tunnels joint venture, to Elkhorn for consideration of certain promissory notes held by Elkhorn with an outstanding balance of approximately $9.5 million.
Exploration Stage Properties
Grey Fox
The Grey Fox Project sits along the Destor Porcupine Fault Zone (“DPFZ”) in the Timmins Mining District of Ontario and is located about 3.5 kilometers southeast of the Black Fox mine. The initial drilling program of 16 core holes was completed in 2008 and was successful in intersecting gold mineralization in rocks similar to the host rocks of the Black Fox ore deposit on the DPFZ and verified, in-filled and expanded historic drilling results on the “Contact Zone,”. The Contact Zone is a north-south structure in the DPFZ hanging wall. The 2008 drilling program also hit very high grade gold mineralization in a silicified breccia within the Contact Zone. This high grade “Calcite Zone” is unique, with a late stage gold-calcite mineralizing event and may represent a shoot formed at a structural intersection.
The 2009 drilling program commenced in August of 2009 and by the end of 2009, 53 holes had been completed. Forty-seven of these holes were drilled on the Grey Fox Property and six were drilled on the newly acquired Pike River Property. Drilling results continue to show continuity in multiple shallow, mineralized zones. All holes have been drilled with the objective of showing continuity to the mineralization, and as a result thereof, an initial NI 43-101 compliant estimate of measured and indicated resources is expected later in 2010.
Pike River
During 2009, Apollo completed the acquisition of the Pike River property from Newmont Canada Corporation (“Newmont”). The Pike River property is located in the Township of Hislop, Ontario, Canada and is contiguous to the south-east boundary of Apollo’s Black Fox mine and the north-west boundary of Apollo’s Grey Fox property. This newly acquired property consists of the surface and mineral rights to approximately 1,145 acres consisting of parcels 1735 LC, 1726 LC, 23687 SEC, 23777 SEC, 3852 SEC and 11125 SEC. With the acquisition of Pike River, Apollo now controls a 17 square kilometer land package (Black Fox, Grey Fox and Pike River).
The 2009 drilling program included the first six holes drilled on Pike River to test the northern extension of mineralization from the adjoining Grey Fox property. This mineralized target area is the northern extension of the fault contact between metasediments and mafic volcanic rocks called the Contact Zone.
Huizopa
We own Mexican subsidiaries which own 100% of the concessions at the Huizopa exploration project. Pursuant to an agreement with the previous owner (the “Previous Owner”) of one of those Mexican subsidiaries, we have a joint venture arrangement with the Previous Owner in which we hold an 80% interest and the Previous Owner holds a 20% free carry interest.
The Huizopa project is located in the northern part of the Sierra Madres Mountains in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico, near the border with the State of Sonora, and encompasses a block of mining concession claims of approximately 170 sq. km.
Sporadic shallow underground mining, limited to a few high-grade zones was done in the past but no mining has taken place at Huizopa since 1936. The geology is characterized by a series of parallel, low sulfidation gold-silver, quartz veins striking 340 degrees and dipping east, hosted by Tertiary-age volcanic rocks. Silver to gold ratios in the veins and from the material on historic mine dumps indicate the Huizopa area hosts an extensive gold-bearing hydrothermal system.
We established an extensive remote field camp at the project and refurbished an existing airstrip. The camp is supplied by fixed wing aircraft and helicopter.
Geologic mapping suggests that the faults that host gold-silver mineralization may be more numerous and more continuous than earlier field work indicated. Petrographic examination revealed the presence of native gold, silver, and electrum in many samples and widespread vein features indicative of repeated boiling and explosive brecciation. Overall vein textures are consistent with high-level exposures of epithermal quartz-adularia and/or fault breccia veins.
Apollo has entered into an agreement with the Ejido Huizopa (the “Ejido”). Pursuant to the agreement, and in consideration for certain payments to the Ejido, we have a right to use the Ejido lands covering our mining concessions in Huizopa for all activities necessary for the exploration, development, and production of potential ore deposits in our Huizopa project area. We can in the future apply for a change of use of land without any additional obligations to the Ejido. In addition, we may traverse adjoining and nearby Ejido land outside the boundaries of the Huizopa mining concessions for the purpose of constructing, operating, and maintaining improvements or facilities necessary for the Huizopa project.
A geophysical program was initiated on the property and used to select initial drilling targets. A drilling contractor commenced helicopter supported core drilling in 2008. On August 14, 2008 we announced the results of the core drilling program on the Puma De Oro exploration target. Twenty-five core holes were drilled on a north-trending zone targeted for drilling based on Apollo’s geochemical sampling and geologic mapping. Anomalous gold and silver was found in twenty of the holes with six of the twenty holes having significant gold and silver values, including hole PDO 10 with 2.5 meters of 42.5 grams per ton.
Drilling at a second target, Lobo De Oro, approximately 2 kilometers east of the Puma De Oro zone, tested a large induced polarization (“IP”) anomaly of 1 kilometer by 3 kilometers that is open in all directions. Three holes were drilled. Drill hole LDO-1 intercepted 280 meters of anomalous silver mineralization ranging from 1 to 19 grams silver, and locally anomalous gold mineralization up to 0.6 grams per tonne gold. Drill holes LDO-2 and LDO-3 intercepted similar grades of silver up to 300 meters away from LDO-1. The silver and gold values, in combination with the broad IP anomaly, could indicate the potential for both an open pit minable target in the area as well as deeper underground targets, although future drilling and test work would need to be performed to confirm any such potential.
In May 2009, we completed an NI 43-101 Exploration Report for the Huizopa project which describes the property and drill results in detail. This NI 43-101 does not contain any resources and reserves.
ITEM 3.