ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Maps of Operations and Properties
The maps below show the locations of the Montana Tunnels mine, the Black Fox project and the Huizopa project in North America. These properties are described in further detail below.
Figure 1 - Property locations in North America
Montana Tunnels Mine
The Montana Tunnels mine was originally owned and operated by Pegasus Gold, a mining company incorporated in Canada. Pegasus commenced operations at the Montana Tunnels mine in 1987 and in 1998, Pegasus filed for bankruptcy. In 2002, we purchased Montana Tunnels Mining, Inc. (“MTMI”), from the receiver in the bankruptcy proceeding.
Figure 2 - Montana Tunnels mine location in Montana, U.S.
On July 28, 2006, Apollo entered into a joint venture (“JV Agreement”) with Elkhorn Tunnels LLC (“Elkhorn”), in respect of the Montana Tunnels mine. The JV Agreement called for Elkhorn to contribute $13 million in return for a 50% interest in the Montana Tunnels mine. Apollo is the operator of the mine.
Location
The Montana Tunnels mine is an open pit, poly-metallic mine and mill located about five miles west of Jefferson City, Montana. The Montana Tunnels mine is located in the historic “Wickes-Corbin” mining district in Section 8 of Township 7 North, Range 4 West, Jefferson County. The Montana Tunnels mine’s elevation ranges from 5,200 to 6,300 feet with moderately mountainous topography. The Montana Tunnels mine is easily accessible by way of interstate highway and paved roads. The Montana Tunnels mine and mill receive power supply from Northwestern Energy from overland power lines.
Production
At Montana Tunnels the mining of the open pit was suspended on October 21, 2005 for safety reasons due to increased wall activity on the eastern side of the open pit. Following suspension of mining, the mill continued to process ore from stockpiled low grade material and produce gold dore and lead-gold and zinc-gold concentrates until May 12, 2006 when all operations ceased and the property was placed on care and maintenance.
Following the signing of the JV Agreement the Montana Tunnels mine commenced an open pit wall remediation program on August 10, 2006, which called for removal of approximately 7 million tons of waste over a six month period and encompassed the laying back of the east and south east sectors of the pit wall and rebuilding the access ramp to the pit bottom. Mill start up occurred on March 1, 2007.
During the second quarter of 2008 there was a failure of the ball mill shell due to cracking which caused a shutdown of the mill for three weeks severely impacting production of metals.
For the year ended December 31, 2008, the mill processed 4,510,000 tons of ore producing gold dore and lead-gold and zinc-gold concentrates containing 52,700 ounces of gold, 661,000 ounces of silver, 16,500,000 pounds of lead and 47,200,000 million pounds of zinc. Payable metal is shown in the table below.
Montana Tunnels Mine Production History
Statistics below are for 100% of the Montana Tunnels mine, Apollo’s share of production is 50%
(1)
Only 10 months of ore processing (March to December)
(2)
Only 5 months of ore processing (January to May)
The Montana Tunnels mine has produced the following aggregate amounts of the listed metals from its inception in 1987 through December 31, 2008:
On December 5, 2008, we ceased mining of ore from the Montana Tunnels open pit operation as a result of exhausting the ore in our current “L Pit” permit. In connection therewith, we issued 60 day notice of terminations of employment to 87 employees in compliance with the U.S. Department of Labor’s Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (“WARN”). On February 3, 2009, 82 of these employees were terminated.
As at December 31, 2008 there was a stockpile of ore of approximately 1.6 million tons, which we expect will be sufficient for us to continue milling and thus produce concentrates until the end of April 2009.
We have received all necessary permits to expand the current pit, which expansion plan we refer to as the M Pit project. The M Pit project would involve a 12 month pre-stripping program that would cost approximately $70 million, during which time no ore would be produced. The decision to proceed with the M Pit project must be agreed to by both our company and Elkhorn. We and our joint venture partner have not yet made a production decision on the M Pit project and such decision will depend, among other things, on securing financing for the $70 million; the prices of gold, silver, lead and zinc; and available smelter terms. We are not currently engaged in discussions with financing sources for our $35 million share of the financing costs. We expect to continue milling stockpiled ore at Montana Tunnels until April 2009. If no decision has been made on the M Pit project by the time that the stockpiled ore is exhausted, then the mill will be placed on care and maintenance. On February 27, 2009, we issued additional WARN notices to all of the remaining 104 employees in anticipation of the cessation of milling in April 2009.
Description of Land, Geology, Process and Equipment
Property Ownership Status.
More than 99% of the Montana Tunnels mineable deposit is overlain by private property wholly owned by MTMI. One 0.3 acre BLM parcel is controlled by an unpatented mining claim. More than 90% of the property located within the permit boundary is private property owned by MTMI. In October 2007 Montana Tunnels purchased an additional private parcel of land to secure a 1,000 foot section of the mine access road. Properties controlled by MTMI in the vicinity of the Montana Tunnels mine and the permit boundary are summarized in the table below:
Property Holdings
Royalty
The design layback of the M Pit encompasses a very small amount of mineralized material beneath three leased patented claims in the Clancy Creek area. If we proceed with the M Pit expansion, ores mined from these claims will be minimal and subject to a 4.5% net smelter royalty (“NSR”).
Royalty Agreements
Geology
The Montana Tunnels deposit is hosted in the central part of the diatreme, an upward-sloping passage forced through sedimentary rock by volcanic activity. The diatreme is a heterolithic breccia, characterized by a sand-size fragmented matrix of quartz latitic composition surrounding subangular to well-rounded fragments of Cretaceous Elkhorn Mountains Volcanics, Tertiary Lowland Creek Volcanics, and clasts derived from the Cretaceous Butte Quartz Monzonite pluton.
There are two main zones of mineralization at Montana Tunnels: (i) a central, pipe-like core of contiguous mineralization, and (ii) discontinuous zones of mineralization peripheral to the core deposit, termed fringe mineralization. The core of the deposit in plain view is oblong in shape and ranges from about 200 feet to 1,000 feet in width, and from 1,400 to 2,000 feet in length, with a vertical extent of at least 2,000 feet. The core zone strikes approximately N30 E and dips steeply (60 degrees to 80 degrees) to the northwest. Metallurgical projections are based on historical feed grade versus tails grade trends; mill throughput tonnage, ore properties relative to pit location and bench elevation; and ore blending requirements.
Process and Equipment
Open pit mining at Montana Tunnels was conducted 20 hours per day seven days per week. Mining was performed by two shovels, twelve 150 ton and two 85 ton haul trucks in addition to ancillary equipment. Following the cessation of mining activities on December 5, 2008 all mining equipment, except for three trucks and two loaders used for transferring ore from the stockpile to the crusher, is parked and in good working order.
When in full production a primary and secondary crusher is used, in series, to generate a coarse ore stockpile ahead of the concentrator. The crusher has an approximate capacity of 16,500 tons per day. The grinding circuit consists of a SAG mill, ball mill and tertiary crusher (SABC circuit) followed by conventional differential flotation. A gravity circuit, in closed loop with the ball mill, recovers 10-15% of gold produced by the concentrator. The remainder of the mill’s production is in the form of concentrates: a zinc-gold concentrate and a lead-gold-silver concentrate. The concentrates are shipped, via rail, to a smelter. The original mill was constructed during 1986 and 1987, and is currently in good working order. When milling operations cease at the end of April 2009, the mill will be cleaned and Montana Tunnels will be placed on care and maintenance at a cost of approximately $150,000 per month, the cost of which will be shared by our JV partner.
At the same time Apollo entered into the JV Agreement, Apollo also entered into two other agreements with Elkhorn Goldfields Inc. (“EGI”), an affiliate of Elkhorn. The first agreement is an option agreement pursuant to which EGI was granted an option to purchase Apollo’s Diamond Hill mine for $0.8 million. The option had an exercise term of two years which was extended by an additional year and will expire on July 28, 2009. The underground Diamond Hill gold mine is situated 28 miles southeast of Helena, Montana and has been on care and maintenance since 2000.
The second agreement is a custom milling agreement pursuant to which EGI will have the right to have MTMI process the ore from EGI’s Elkhorn mine, located 20 miles to the south of the Montana Tunnels mine, through the 1,000 ton per day Diamond Hill mill which is situated within the Montana Tunnels mill complex. Should EGI exercise its right to have MTMI process the ore, it will reimburse MTMI for all of its expenses in connection with the milling. The custom milling agreement also gives EGI a two-year option to purchase the Diamond Hill mill for $1.0 million. This option to purchase was extended by an additional year and will expire on July 28, 2009.
Mineral Reserves
The table below shows Apollo’s share of the mineral reserves at Montana Tunnels.
Montana Tunnels Mine Reserve Estimate at December 31, 2008
(Apollo’s 50% interest)
The three years average metal prices for 2006 - 2008 were used for the calculation of the year-end 2007 reserves, which are as follows:
Gold - $724/oz Silver - $13.32/oz Lead - $0.90/lb Zinc - $1.27/lb
Environmental
The permitted plan of operations allows mining of ore reserves from the L Pit mine design. Unstable pit walls in the ramp sector on the east side of the Montana Tunnels mine closed down the open pit in October 2005. A pit wall layback and pit ramp reconstruction in the east sector of the open pit was subsequently developed using extensive geotechnical analysis to ensure stability and safety for ongoing mining operations. A permit revision for the pit wall layback and associated changes was approved by the Department of Environmental Quality in December 2005. This work was initiated in August 2006 following completion of the JV Agreement with Elkhorn.
Following the closure of the open pit in October 2005, milling of low grade stockpiles continued until May 2006 at which time the mill was shut down and the property placed on care and maintenance. As a result of the unplanned milling of the low grade stockpiles, a revision to the operating permit was obtained in the fourth quarter of 2006 allowing the Montana Tunnels mine to raise the tailings embankment thus increasing the tailings capacity to accommodate the mill tailings from the L Pit ore reserves. The raising of the tailings embankment was completed during 2007.
The Montana Department of Environmental Quality and Bureau of Land Management issued a Record of Decision approving the M Pit Expansion in November 2008. The M Pit mine expansion amendment would provide approximately 38 million tons of additional ore for processing and add approximately seven years to the life of the mine. The decision to proceed with the $70 million M Pit project must be agreed by both our company and Elkhorn, LLC, our joint venture partner. To date no decision has been made to proceed with the M Pit project.
The current bonding requirements for the Montana Tunnels L Pit mine are met by the following bond instruments:
(1)
Apollo’s share of the amounts shown is 50%.
National Fire Insurance Company of Hartford, a unit of Continental Casualty Company (“CNA”), provides $15,041,000 of the total reclamation bonding for the Montana Tunnels mine plan of operations at a deferred bond premium cost of $14 per $1,000 of bonding under a Term Bonding Agreement dated August 1, 2002. CNA also provides a separate exploration bond in the amount of $53,000 under the same agreement.
Bonding requirements are subject to adjustment by the State of Montana for various reasons from time to time.
Drilling
As of December 31, 2008, the Montana Tunnels mine database contains 896 reverse circulation, rotary, core and blasthole drill holes, totaling 470,299 feet that were drilled from the mid-1970s to the present by numerous mining and exploration companies.
From 2002 through 2004 thirteen reverse-circulation holes for 11,000 feet were drilled to increase confidence levels in the M Pit reserve. The drill holes were placed as mine development phases provided locations to collar specific holes. Results from both the 2002 and 2004 drilling programs were favorable, providing a higher degree of definition to the current ore reserve and established the geometric distribution of the polymetallic grade mineralization in the M Pit design.
The Montana Tunnels mine drill hole spacing is generally within the gold variogram range of 30 feet to 140 feet in the core.
Black Fox Project
The Black Fox property was formerly known as the Glimmer mine. In April 1996, Exall Resources Ltd. (“Exall”) purchased 60% of the property from Hemlo Gold Inc., and Glimmer Resource Inc. (“Glimmer”) held the remaining 40%.
In September 2002, we purchased all of the real estate and related assets of the mine, which ceased operations in May 2001, from Exall and Glimmer and renamed it “Black Fox”. We paid Exall and Glimmer an aggregate purchase price consisting of Cdn$3 million in cash and an aggregate of 2,080,000 of our common shares. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition, an additional Cdn$3 million was paid to Exall and Glimmer on January 6, 2006.
From 1997 until 2001, the mine produced approximately 210,000 ounces of gold.
On July 28, 2008, we completed the acquisition from St Andrew Goldfields Ltd., which we refer to as St Andrew, of its Stock Mill and related equipment, infrastructure, property rights, laboratory and tailings facilities, located near Timmins, Ontario. The acquisition was made pursuant to an asset purchase agreement dated June 11, 2008, as amended June 30, 2008 and July 23, 2008, between Apollo Gold and St Andrew. Pursuant to the asset purchase agreement, St Andrew agreed to sell the Stock Mill complex to Apollo Gold for a purchase price of Cdn$20 million and the refund to St Andrew of its bonding commitment at the mill complex in the amount of approximately Cdn$1.2 million.
Figure 3 - Black Fox mine and Black Fox mill (formerly known as the Stock mill) locations along
Destor-Porcupine Fault Zone in Province of Ontario, Canada
Location
The Black Fox project consists of two properties: a mine and a mill. The Black Fox mine is located approximately seven miles east of Matheson, Ontario, Canada. The stock mill complex purchased from St Andrew, which we renamed the Black Fox mill complex, is located approximately 12 miles west of Matheson, which means that it is approximately 19 miles west of the Black Fox mine site. Both properties are easily accessible by provincial highway and power is supplied by Hydro One.
Property, plant and equipment at the mine consists of an administration office, change house facilities, core sheds and surface infrastructure for the mine (pumps, heating, etc.), all of which are in good working condition. Property, plant and equipment at the Black Fox mill consists of an administrative office, electrical and mechanical shops, laboratory and an 1,100 tonnes per day mill for processing the Black Fox ores. The mill is currently being refurbished and expanded to increase the throughput rate to 2,000 tonnes per day. All plant facilities and equipment are in good working order and we expect the expanded mill to be commissioned in April 2009. Within the mill property, there is also a permitted tailings compound.
The Black Fox mine sits astride the Destor-Porcupine Fault Zone (DPFZ), which is a deep break in the Precambrian rocks of the Abitibi Greenstone Belt. This fault system hosts many of the deposits in the Timmins area. The system regionally strikes east-west and dips variably to the south. Black Fox lies on the southern limb of a large scale fold on a flexure in the DPFZ Fault where the strike changes from east-west to southeast. Folded and altered ultra mafic and mafic are the host rocks for mineralization. Gold occurs as free gold in quartz veining and stockworks in altered ultra mafics and in gold associated with pyrite in altered tholeiitic basalts.
The Black Fox mine consists of 3,195 acres of which: 185 acres are leasehold patents, 1,559 acres are owned by Apollo, 319 acres are leased by us, 820 acres where we have surface rights only and 311 acres where we have mineral rights but no surface rights. The 3,195 acres includes property known as Grey Fox, which is approximately 2 miles southeast of the actual Black Fox mine.
The Black Fox mill property consists of:
Leasehold - 15 parcels
2,608 acres
Patented - 9 parcels
1,068 acres
Unpatented - 21 parcels
2,451 acres
Total of all property
6,127 acres
None of the currently defined reserves are subject to production royalties. However, Apollo owns properties totaling 1,414 acres that are subject to net smelter return royalties, ranging from 2.0% to 3.25%, if there is production in the future from any reserves found on that property.
Exploration and Development
From 2003 to 2007, we conducted a drilling program during which we completed a total of 504 surface diamond drill holes totaling 149,548 meters and 396 underground holes totaling 78,644 meters. Apollo’s drilling supplemented the data from the 286 surface and 707 underground drill holes drilled by the previous owners. A table of total drill holes is shown below.
Black Fox Project Drill Hole Database
In addition, during 2008, we drilled 16 exploration diamond drill holes on our property know as Grey Fox and expect to announce the assay results in April 2009.
Mineral Reserves
On April 14, 2008, we filed a Canadian National Instrument, NI 43-101 Technical Report, which was prepared to a bankable standard (“bankable feasibility study”). A bankable feasibility study is a comprehensive analysis of a project’s economics (+/- 15% precision) used by the banking industry for financing purposes. The table below summarizes the Black Fox Total Mineral Reserve. The mineral reserves shown in the table below were calculated based on a gold price of $650 per ounce.
Black Fox Probable Reserve Statement as of December 31, 2008
(1) Underground reserves assume 95% mining recovery 17% planned dilution and 5% unplanned dilution both at 0 grams per tonne grade.
The reserve estimates were based on information from 1,893 drill holes totaling 338,842 meters. All assays over 170 grams of gold per tonne (5.5 oz of gold per ton) were capped at this level, which represents 0.25% of the assays.
Permits
We have received all necessary permits and approvals required to commence mining activities of phase I of the open pit. In particular, we have received Certified Closure Plan Approval, an Amended Certificate of Approval for Industrial Sewage Works, and a Permit to Take Water (Surface and Ground Water.) The open pit reserves are divided into phase I and phase II and we expect to apply for the permits necessary to conduct phase II once mining on phase I has commenced.
Mining Operations
In October, 2008, we awarded a contract for the removal of the glacial till material which overlays the open pit and work commenced on October 23, 2008. This removal is scheduled to be completed in May 2009. Mining of the open pit ore and waste, which commenced in March 2009, is undertaken by Company employees. All long lead time mining equipment, and all items required to commence mining were on site February 2009.
We expect that, by the second quarter of 2009, the open pit will produce 1,500 tonnes of ore per day, which will be sufficient to feed the mill. Based on this assessment, we have decided to defer underground mining to periods after 2009. Our decisions regarding the development of the underground mine and the timing thereof will be partially influenced by progress with the phase II of the open pit permitting. Therefore, we do not expect to be in a position to make a determination regarding the development and timing of underground mining until 2010.
Mill Complex
In the third quarter 2008, we awarded GBM Engineering Ltd., of the UK an EPCM contract (Engineering, Procurement, Construction and Management) to increase the mill capacity to 2,000 tonnes per day at a cost of approximately $22.0 million. The mill is scheduled to start commissioning in April 2009 and is expected to reach a throughput rate of 1,500 tonnes per day in May 2009. The upgrade of our mill means that we will not toll treat ores as highlighted in the NI 43-101.
Production
In March 2009, we commenced mining of the Black Fox open pit and we estimate that we will mine 2,983,000 tonnes in 2009, 374,000 tonnes of which will be ore. The mine will operate 24 hours per day, 7 days per week and will employ approximately 140 personnel. The ore will be crushed at the mine site and be transported to the Black Fox mill by a fleet of contract trucks. The mining equipment consists of four CAT 777 trucks, two CAT excavators, one Komatsu PC 2000 loader, two CAT D8 bulldozers and two Atlas Copco drills.
The Black Fox mill is scheduled to commence milling in April 2009 and should reach a throughput rate of 1,500 tonnes per day in May 2009. Recoveries of gold are projected to be 95%. The mill will produce a gold dore, which will be refined by the Johnson Matthey refinery in Brampton, Ontario. The mill is expected to employ 42 personnel.
Bonding
Closure plans for both the mine and mill sites prepared by AMEC Earth and Environmental, a Division of AMEC Americas Limited, were submitted to and accepted by the Ontario Ministry of Northern Development and Mines (“MNDM”) during 2008. Bonding requirements for each site were set by the MNDN as follows (in Cdn$);
As of March 20, 2009 we had posted Cdn$5,644,650 of the Black Fox mine bonding requirement with the balance of Cdn$1,784,180 due in May 2009 and had posted Cdn$3,500,000 towards the Black Fox mill complex with the balance of Cdn$3,392,300 due prior to mill start up which is estimated to be April 2009.
We have met these bonding requirements through letters of credit issued by TD Canada Trust secured by a pledged deposit account of Cdn$9,144,650. The obligations to reimburse TD Canada Trust for any drawing under the letter of credit are secured by Apollo’s maintenance of an amount equal to the amount available for drawing the above mentioned deposit account pledged to TD Canada Trust. The annual letter of credit fee is 1% of the amount available for drawing. Interest is earned on the deposit account at a rate established by TD Canada Trust from time to time. We will file an amended closure plan for phase II of the open pit in the third quarter of 2009. We expect that there will be additional bonding requirements in connection with this amended closure plan for phase II, but we are unable to quantify the amount at this time.
Exploration Stage Properties
Huizopa
We own Mexican subsidiaries which own 100% of the concessions at the Huizopa exploration project. Pursuant to an agreement with the previous owner (the “Previous Owner”) of one of those Mexican subsidiaries, we have a joint venture with the Previous Owner in which we hold an 80% interest and the Previous Owner holds a 20% free carry interest. If our Mexican subsidiary chooses not to go forward with the Huizopa project, it is obligated to transfer a controlling interest in the subsidiary that holds the option back to the Previous Owner, and to transfer 91% of the concessions it owns at the Huizopa project back to the Previous Owner.
The Huizopa project is located in the northern part of the Sierra Madres in the state of Chihuahua, Mexico, near the border with the State of Sonora, and encompasses a block of mining concession claims of approximately 170 sq. km. During 2007, we acquired new claims to the east of our holdings that expanded our land position from 128 sq. km. to 170 sq. km.
Sporadic shallow underground mining limited to a few high-grade zones was done in the past but no mining has taken place at Huizopa since 1936. The property is very remote and will be accessed initially by helicopter. To maintain the exploration and exploitation rights for the “Rosa” and “Donna” concessions, we were required to pay $0.1 million in April 2007 and $1.5 million (plus applicable taxes in Mexico) in October 2007. These concessions represent approximately 17% of the Huizopa property. These payments were made ahead of schedule on February 28, 2007 when the Company issued 1,000,000 common shares and paid $2.55 million in settlement of these contractual land payments and certain other claims on its Huizopa properties.
The geology is characterized by a series of parallel, low sulfidation gold-silver, quartz veins hosted by Tertiary-age volcanic rocks. Silver to gold ratios in the veins and from the material on historic mine dumps indicate the Huizopa area hosts an extensive gold-bearing hydrothermal system. Two major parallel quartz vein systems with north trending structures contain many single vein outcrops 7 to 10 meters thick suggesting a series of stacked veins. Strike lengths are over 2.0 km on the property with untested down dip potential. The stratigraphy of the Huizopa area has two sections of relatively mafic lava flows with intercalated volcanic clastics. The dominant strike azimuths of faults are 340º and 160º with dips ranging from vertical to 33º. Most of these structures, including the major faults with associated thick gouge or breccia zones, dip eastward. These east dipping faults are the faults associated with quartz veins, brecciation, and mineralization.
We established an extensive remote field camp at the project and refurbished an existing airstrip. The camp is supplied by fixed wing aircraft and helicopter.
Mapping of the mining concession began in June 2004 and were ongoing through 2007. The results were compiled and transferred to new topography maps and air photos as well as the Mexican government’s Chabacan topographical sheet which has been enlarged from 1:50,000 scale to 1:10,000. Geologic mapping suggests that the faults that host gold-silver mineralization may be more numerous and more continuous than earlier field work indicated. Petrographical examination revealed the presence of native gold, silver, and electrum in many samples and widespread vein features indicative of repeated boiling and explosive brecciation. Overall vein textures are consistent with high-level exposures of epithermal quartz-adularia and/or fault breccia veins.
In the first quarter of 2006, we entered into an agreement with the Ejido Huizopa (the “Ejido”), which is a group of local inhabitants who, under Mexican law, are granted rights to conduct agricultural activities and control surface access on the property. Pursuant to the agreement, and in consideration for certain payments to the Ejido, we have a right to use Ejido land covering our mining concessions in Huizopa for all activities necessary for the exploration, development, and production of potential ore deposits in our Huizopa project area. We can in the future apply for a change of use of land without any additional obligations to the Ejido. In addition, we may traverse adjoining and nearby Ejido land outside the boundaries of the Huizopa mining concessions for the purpose of constructing, operating, and maintaining improvements or facilities necessary for the Huizopa project.
In 2006, a geophysical program was initiated on the property and the process to select initial drilling targets commenced in 2007. Drill targets were selected and a contract signed with a drilling contractor to commence helicopter supported core drilling in 2008. This initial drilling program commenced in February 2008 and on August 14, 2008 we announced the results of the core drilling program on the Puma De Oro exploration target. Twenty five NQ core holes were drilled on a north-trending zone targeted for drilling based on Apollo’s geochemical sampling and geologic mapping. Anomalous gold and silver was found in twenty of the holes with six of the twenty holes having significant gold and silver values. We are currently working on completing an NI 43-101 for the Huizopa project more fully describing the property and drill results. This NI 43-101 will not contain any resources and reserves. Drilling assay results of core holes with intercepts greater than 0.5 grams per tonne are shown below.
Assays were performed by Inspectorate America Corporation of Sparks, Nevada.
Diamond Hill
The Diamond Hill mine, which has been on care and maintenance since 2000, is owned by Montana Tunnels Mining, Inc. The Diamond Hill mine is an underground gold mine and is located approximately 28 miles southeast of Helena, Montana, in Broadwater County and on the east flank of the Elkhorn Mountains, within the Hassel Mining District. The Diamond Hill mine was in production from 1996 to 2000, during which time, 775,000 tons of ore were mined at an average grade of 0.233 ounces of gold per ton.
On July 28, 2006, Apollo entered into an agreement with Elkhorn Goldfields Inc. (“EGI”), an affiliate of Elkhorn. The agreement is an option agreement pursuant to which EGI was granted an option to purchase the Diamond Hill mine for $0.8 million. The option originally had an exercise term of two years but it was extended by an additional year and now expires on July 28, 2009.
The Diamond Hill mine covers over 1,215 acres of patented and unpatented claims. We have 100% ownership of the main patented claims that contain the current deposits, subject to a 0.5 to 1% net smelter return and a 10% net profits royalty. We also have 50% ownership of four additional patented claims, which are peripheral to the main land package. As of December 31, 2008, we hold 30 unpatented claims and lease 19 unpatented claims. The current Diamond Hill mine permit boundary covers 270 acres with most of the mine disturbance footprint within a 27 acre area of the main patented group of claims.
The Diamond Hill ore bodies and mine workings are in solid unfractured rock and accordingly are amenable to low cost sublevel open stoping methods. Ore was transported to the Montana Tunnels mill facility by truck where it was processed in a separate circuit designed for Diamond Hill ore. Most of the gold was recovered into a high grade pyrite concentrate and sold to Japanese smelters. The deposit is classed as a skarn hosted sulfide deposit where the predominant ore mineralogy is gold associated with pyrite and lesser other metal sulfides.
The bonding requirement for Diamond Hill, totaling approximately $763,000 is posted with the Montana Department of Environmental Quality, and is managed as part of the bonding activities through Montana Tunnels.
In June of 2008, a cleanup work plan was carried out at Diamond Hill to improve site conditions. As part of this work plan, Montana Tunnels personnel removed some weathered structures, removed all scrap from the site, improved storm water controls, sprayed weeds, and reclaimed the waste rock dump and some exploration roads. In addition, a total of 4 acres of waste dump surface and unused exploration roads were graded, soiled and seeded to control water runoff and seepage.
ITEM 3.