ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
MINING PROPERTIES AND OPERATIONS
Through our two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Florida, Inc. and Montana, Inc., we have two currently operating mines: the Florida Canyon Mine, a low grade heap leach gold mine, and the Montana Tunnels Mine, a gold mine.
The following table presents certain information regarding our metal mining properties, including the relative percentage each contributed to our sales for the year ended December 31, 2003:
Florida, Inc. and Montana, Inc. land holdings are primarily divided into two categories, unpatented mining claims and fee acreage/patented mining claims.
Our unpatented mining claims require annual filings with the United States Bureau of Land Management and the county where the claims are held. A $100 per claim maintenance fee is paid to the United States Bureau of Land Management on or before September 1 of each year. An affidavit of notice of intent to hold unpatented mining claims and notice of maintenance fee payment in lieu of assessment work is filed with the county recorder on or before November 1 of each year. The notices and fees are filed and paid on a yearly basis and currently all claims are in good standing.
Fee acreage/patented mining claims are lands owned by us. To the best of our knowledge, our owned patented claims have been legally located, documented, recorded and maintained in compliance with applicable state and federal laws, and there are no violations of, or defaults under, any obligation of such lands.
We also have various leases and agreements for small parcels of land. To our knowledge, each lease is in full force and effect and valid and enforceable in accordance with its terms.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
The following are definitions of certain abbreviations used in this Business section:
"AG" means silver.
"AU" means gold.
"AUEQ" means gold equivalent.
"FE" means iron.
"FLOTATION" means a concentration process selectively attaching valuable minerals to air bubbles in a chemical solution.
"GPM" means gallons per minute.
"ISO" means International Standards Organization.
"MA" means million years before present.
"NPI" means net profit interest, a royalty based on the market value of the gold produced less the cost of refining and transportation.
"NSR" means net smelter return.
"ORE" means material that can be economically mined and processed.
"OZ AG/TON" means ounces silver per short ton (oz/ton).
"OZ AU/TON" means ounces gold per short ton (oz/ton).
"PB" means lead.
"ROM" means run of mine (leaching of uncrushed materials).
"RQD" means rock quality designation.
"RC OR RVC" means reverse circulation drilling method.
"STRIP (OR STRIPPING) RATIO" means the tonnage of waste material removed to allow the mining of one ton of ore in an open pit.
"SULFIDE ORE" means mineralization contained in the form of a sulfide.
"T" or "TON" means short ton.
"TPD" means short tons per day.
"ZN" means zinc.
FLORIDA CANYON MINE
The Florida Canyon Mine is owned and operated by Florida, Inc. Florida Canyon Mine is a low grade, open pit, heap leach operation located near Winnemucca, Nevada. Daily production totals approximately 30,000 tons of crusher ore (ore that is crushed to specified grades) and run-of-mine ore (uncrushed ore) that is placed on a permanent leach pad for heap leaching to recover gold and silver. The Florida Canyon Mine has operated since 1986. For the year ended December 31, 2003, a total of 8,625,912 tons containing 132,232 ounces of gold had been placed on the leach pad and 101,811 ounces of gold had been recovered. Slightly lower amounts of silver have also been recovered.
The Standard Mine is a development project located south of the Florida Canyon Mine and is currently owned by Standard Gold Mining, Inc. Historically, the Standard Mine project assets have been part of the Florida Canyon Mine and therefore the production and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the Florida Canyon Mine includes data for the Standard Mine project. However, in the fourth quarter of 2003 we transferred the Standard Mine project assets into one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Standard Gold Mining, Inc.
Location. The Florida Canyon Mine is located about 42 miles south of Winnemucca, Nevada, just off Interstate 80 at the Humboldt exit. The pits, waste dumps, and facilities are located in sections 1, 2, 3, 10, 11, and 12 of T31N, R33E and sections 34, 35 of T32N, R33E Mount Diablo Base & Meridian, Pershing County, Nevada. The approximate location of the deposit is longitude 118 14' and latitude 40 35'. The Standard Mine Area is located approximately five miles south of the Florida Canyon Mine.
Land Area. The land that we own, lease or control at the Florida Canyon Mine covers a total of 15,456 acres. Fee lands total 4,075.81 acres, while 19 patented claims total 359.9 acres. We also maintain 579 unpatented claims that total 11,580 acres. The fee lands and patented claims and most of the unpatented
claims have been surveyed. Land lease and option payments and unpatented claim maintenance fees total $823,975 for 2002 and 2003, after which the total land cost drops to $115,900 annually. The Florida Canyon Mine operating permit area contains 5,522 acres. We have disturbed approximately 1,958 acres of land, consisting of 1,034 acres of public lands and 923 acres of fee (private) lands. Mining the remaining reserves will add 77 acres of disturbance, of which 24 acres are public lands and 53 acres are private lands. We expect approval in late June 2004 to mine the additional reserves. The land that we own or lease at the Standard Mine covers a total of 6,087 acres, and fee lands total 1,926.89 acres. We also maintain 208 unpatented claims that total 4,160 acres at the Standard Mine.
Production. We have historically processed approximately 10 million tons of ore annually at the Florida Canyon Mine. Approximately 45% of the ore is crushed to 80% passing 0.75 inch and 55% of the ore is run-of-mine ore placed directly on the leach heap. Production from the Florida Canyon Mine operation is summarized in Table 1.
This table presents data from the Florida Canyon Mine property. All production is subject to a 2.5% net smelter return (NSR) royalty.
TABLE 1 FLORIDA CANYON PRODUCTION HISTORY
Mining Claim Description. Mining operations and facilities are on Sections 1, 2, 3, 10, 11, and 12 of T31N, R33E, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian, Pershing County, Nevada. The mineralization and facilities extend to the north in Sections 34 and 35 of T32N, R33E, Mount Diablo Base and Meridian. Usually only 36 sections are in each township, however, in T31N, R33E, Sections 37, 38, and 39 are included due to old government surveying problems leaving gaps between the normal sections.
Agreements and Encumbrances. All current reserves at the Florida Canyon Mine deposit are subject to a 2.5% net smelter return royalty. Other Florida Canyon Mine property is subject to royalties shown in Table 2.
TABLE 2 ROYALTY AGREEMENTS
We have paid royalties of $898,104, $508,000 and $0, respectively, in the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.
The annual holding costs of Florida Canyon Mine, exclusive of property taxes, are shown in Table 3.
TABLE 3 FLORIDA, INC. & STANDARD GOLD MINING, INC. LAND HOLDING COSTS
Mine equipment at our Florida Canyon Mine is held under installment purchase agreements and capital leases with Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and a capital lease with ATEL Equipment Leasing. The total initial purchase price of mine equipment was approximately $34.72 million. As of February 29, 2004, the balance owed was approximately $4.56 million.
At February 29, 2004, the net book value of the Florida Canyon Mine and its associated plant and equipment was approximately $9.55 million.
Environmental Liabilities. The Florida Canyon Mine has been in continuous operation since 1986. The original permit to operate was granted by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management ("BLM") and the Nevada Department of Environmental Protection ("NDEP") Reclamation Permit 126. The remaining reserves are the subject of the 17 sequentially numbered amendments to the Florida Canyon Mine operating plan. The current permit area encompasses approximately 5,522 acres of privately owned Florida, Inc. lands and BLM-administered public lands. The 17th amendment ("APO 17") did not propose any new disturbance; however, overall authorized disturbance within the permit area was reduced by 5.9 acres. Florida, Inc.'s existing and approved operations comprise a total of 1,957.5 disturbance acres consisting of 1,034.1 acres of disturbance on public land administered by the BLM, and approximately 923.4 acres of disturbance on private land. An 18th amendment ("APO 18") was submitted in December 2003 seeking approval to mine additional reserves identified in the Switchback Pit area and expand the existing heap leach pad to accommodate approximately 20 million tons of ore. An environmental assessment is currently being prepared by a third-party contractor. Any development of additional reserves will require additional amendments.
We are required to maintain reclamation bonds covering the costs of reclaiming all disturbances at our mines as established by regulatory authorities from time to time. Bonding requirements for the Florida Canyon Mine were met by the following bond instruments:
The first two reclamation bonds totaling $17,456,130 were issued by Safeco Insurance Company of America ("Safeco"). In 1999, Safeco cancelled the first bond in the amount of $16,936,130; however, prior to the effective date of cancellation, the U.S. District Court for the District of Nevada entered a declaratory judgment holding that Safeco's cancellation does not affect the BLM's right to treat the bond as remaining "outstanding" as part of the required bonding for the Florida Canyon Mine and that ongoing mining under our plan of operation does not affect Safeco's obligations under the bond upon eventual completion of mining. In reliance on that judgment, BLM has counted the cancelled Safeco bond towards satisfaction of our bonding requirements and has permitted us to continue to mine both inside and outside the area covered by the cancelled Safeco bond. On May 29, 2003, a not-for-publication memorandum decision was delivered by a three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the U.S. District Court judgment in our favor. Safeco did not file notice of any further appeal within the period permitted, and the District Court judgment has become final. A more complete description of the litigation among Safeco, the United States, the State of Nevada, and us with respect to the cancelled Safeco bond is included below under "Legal Proceedings". In view of Safeco's cancellation of the bond, Safeco has not invoiced us for, and we have not paid, any premium on, the cancelled Safeco bond since August 15, 1999. Safeco's future intention with respect to the cancelled bond is not known.
The unsecured Safeco-issued bond in the amount of $16,936,130 covers only disturbances within the area disturbed as of August 15, 1999, and further disturbances within that area. The second Safeco bond in the amount of $520,000 carries an annual bond premium of $6,500. Safeco issued that bond in 2001 under a settlement agreement preventing cancellation until May 1, 2003. Safeco has extended the $520,000 bond to May 1, 2004, and has advised that it will further extend the bond to May 1, 2005. That bond was furnished by Safeco as part of its obligations under the settlement agreement resolving related litigation involving Safeco, Diamond Hill, Inc., the United States, and the State of Montana as more completely described below under "Legal Proceedings". The $520,000 Safeco bond covers all disturbances within the Florida Canyon Mine site's area of operations.
The $3,527,270 personal bond issued to Florida, Inc. is secured by an irrevocable stand-by letter of credit in the same amount issued by Washington Mutual Bank for the benefit of BLM. We are required to maintain a deposit account pledged to Washington Mutual Bank equal to 100% of the amount available for drawing under the letter of credit to secure Washington Mutual Bank's obligations under the letter of credit. We pay annual letter of credit fees equal to 1.5% of the face amount of the letter of credit. We earn interest on the pledged deposit account at the rate established by Washington Mutual Bank from time to time.
We have not yet made arrangements for meeting increased bonding requirements likely to be imposed in connection with mine expansion plans scheduled for 2004.
The bonding requirements for the Standard Mine development project were met by the following bond instruments:
The $96,410 personal bond is secured by an irrevocable stand-by letter of credit in the same amount issued by Washington Mutual Bank for the benefit of BLM. We are required to maintain a deposit account pledged to Washington Mutual Bank equal to 100% of the amount available for drawing to secure Washington Mutual Bank's obligations under the letter of credit. We pay annual letter of credit fees equal to 2.0% of the face amount of the letter of credit. We earn interest on the pledged deposit account at the rate established by Washington Mutual Bank from time to time. The $8,500 personal bond is secured by direct pledge to BLM of a certificate of deposit equal to 100% of the penal sum of the bond. We do not pay any fees. We earn interest on the pledged certificate of deposit at the rate established by Washington Mutual Bank from time to time. We intend to substitute Standard, Inc. for Florida, Inc. as bond principal on all bonding for the Standard Mine area. The bonding requirement will increase by a material amount upon approval of the Standard Mine area permit applications that are currently pending prior to commencement of mining scheduled for 2004. We have not yet arranged for issuance of bonding to cover mining operations.
Like all mine operators, we always face the risk of redetermination of bonding requirements as a result of changes in regulatory agency assumptions and methodology used to establish bonding requirements, and there can be no assurance that our bond requirements will remain the same.
As of December 31, 2003, we estimate accrued closure costs at the Florida Canyon Mine to be an aggregate of $12.5 million (including severance costs of $1.6 million), of which $1.0 million has already been completed. Following approval of APO 18, internal closure costs are estimated to increase to approximately $15.1 million, of which $2.0 million will be completed in 2004. The $15.1 million post-APO 18 closure costs do not include employee severance.
Florida Canyon Mine and Standard Mine Area Geology. The Florida Canyon Mine and Standard Mine Area deposits are situated in the Basin and Range physiographic province of northwestern Nevada, typified by a series of northward-trending elongated mountain ranges separated by alluvial valleys. The deposits are located in the Humboldt Range, which is formed by north-trending folding and faulting.
The Florida Canyon and Standard Mine Area are dominated by a major regional structural zone, termed the Humboldt Structural Zone, which is a 200 km wide northeasterly-trending structural zone with left-lateral strike slip movement. Permo-Triassic rocks of the Rochester Rhyolite, Prida Formation, Natchez Pass Formation, and Grass Valley Formation are all exposed in the Florida Canyon
area. The Humboldt City Thrust separates the Natchez Pass and Grass Valley formations from the underlying Prida Formation. There is a strong N30 degrees E to N50 degrees E structural fabric prevalent in and adjacent to the Florida Canyon Mine and Standard Mine deposits, as evidenced by the alignment of quartz veining, shear zones, and well-developed joint sets.
Mineralization at the Florida Canyon Mine consists of native gold and electrum, an alloy of gold and silver associated with quartz, iron oxides, pyrite, marcasite, and arsenopyrite. Quartz is the major gangue mineral. Secondary minerals identified in the Florida Canyon Mine deposits include gypsum (likely remobilized from the Grass Valley Formation), alunite, barite, native sulfur, calcite, dolomite, anhydrite, pyrargyrite, pyrrhotite, and stibnite.
Gold mineralization at the Standard Mine Area deposits also consists of native gold and electrum generally associated with silicification and argillization at the contact between Grass Valley argillite and the underlying Natchez Pass limestone.
Florida Canyon Mine and Standard Mine Area Drilling and Sampling. The Florida Canyon Mine property is situated in the Imlay Mining District in Pershing County, Nevada. Historically, the only significant gold production in the area came from the Standard Mine between 1939 to 1942 and 1946 to 1949. Modern exploration at Florida Canyon Mine began in 1969. It has been explored by five different mining and exploration companies. Table 4 summarizes the drilling on the Florida Canyon Mine property between 1969 and December 31, 2003, which totals over 1.9 million feet in 4,476 drill holes; this also includes 857 holes totaling 240,139 feet that were drilled in the Standard Mine Area.
TABLE 4 FLORIDA CANYON MINE AND STANDARD MINE DRILL HOLE DATABASE SUMMARY
The reverse circulation drilling we have completed is done wet from the surface, with a 10 to 15 lb sample collected from a wet rotary splitter. American Assay Labs of Sparks, Nevada completed most of the analyses of Florida Canyon drill hole samples. Gold analysis is by standard fire assay with either atomic absorption or gravimetric finish.
About 10% of the drill samples we have completed were analyzed in duplicate. Mine Development Associates, an independent mining testing firm, examined the checked assay data which showed good correlation between the original and duplicate data. In addition to internal checks, American Assay continually monitors the laboratory performance of our independent consultants.
Drill Hole Spacing. Measured oxide resources for the Florida Canyon Mine are classified as those model blocks with at least three composites within one-half the distance of the variogram range; indicated resources are model blocks with at least two composites within the distance of the variogram range.
The drill hole spacing at Florida Canyon Mine and Standard Mine Area approximates a 100 foot grid. The variogram range varies between 40 feet and 170 feet. About 26% of the oxide resources at the mines are measured, indicating the drill spacing is within of the variogram range, and 74% are defined as indicated, indicating spacing more than of the variogram range, but less than the full range. The variogram ranges at the Standard Mine Area are between 30 feet and 210 feet and are generally slightly longer than the ranges at the Florida Canyon Mine. At the Standard Mine Area approximately 54% of the resources are defined as measured. Kriging variance was used to define measured and indicated materials at the Standard Mine Area.
Florida Canyon Mine Reserves. The Florida Canyon Mine reserves include the remaining material from several pits with prior mining and some new areas that have not been mined. The pits for the new areas were designed using Whittle pit optimization at $400/ounce gold price to complete the design, and cut off grades based on $350/ounce gold price to determine reserves. Additional drilling was conducted in 2002 and 2003 in some of the new pit areas. The areas with prior mining include the Brown Derby, Central, Jasperoid Hill and Main Extension, while new areas include Headwaters, Northeast Extension, and Radio Towers West. The new areas are generally further up the slope of the Humboldt Range. Table 5 summarizes Florida Canyon Mine and Standard Mine Project reserves as of December 31, 2003, which conform to the definitions ascribed by the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum and guidelines adopted by CIM Counsil on August 20, 2000 and the United States Securities Exchange Commission Industry Guide 7 definitions of Proven and Probable reserves.
TABLE 5 FLORIDA CANYON MINE RESERVES
Note: Mine Development Associates located at 210 South Rock Blvd., Reno Nevada 89052 is an independent mining engineering company, and completed its review of our reserve estimates in February 2004.
Florida Canyon Mine and Standard Mine Area Mineralized Material. The Florida Canyon Mine resources were modeled by our manager of exploration, with supporting work and input from our engineering and geology staff. In addition to a gold grade model, a geologic/mineralogic model was made to represent the
extent of each alteration/lithologic group recognized at the Florida Canyon Mine.
Grade population domains were used to restrict high-grade assays from smearing into lower grade domains. Domain boundaries that corresponded to each of the four gold composite populations were drawn on 20 feet spaced bench maps; these hard boundary polygons were used to code the drill composites and model blocks to each particular domain and constrain the estimate. We used a multi-pass technique to estimate block grades starting with measured resources and ending with inferred material. Block grades were estimated by a combination of ordinary kriging and inverse distance techniques.
All of our mine pits have been developed from optimized pits based only on mineralized material. All of the pits are based on designed pit slopes with ramps, with the exception of the Star pit at our Standard Mine area. Most of our Standard Mine Area pits are side hill access, are not deep, and do not require an in-pit ramp system.
Florida Canyon Mine Operations. The Florida Canyon Mine generally operates two 10-hour shifts per day, six days per week. Generally, several pits are mined at the same time. All equipment utilized at the Florida Canyon Mine is leased or owned, and is in good working condition. Ore grade material is transported to the run of mine heap or the crusher stockpile. The run of mine material generally grades between 0.006 and 0.018 ounces of gold per short ton (oz/ton), however, the actual cut off grade is dependent on rock and alteration type. This material is dumped on the pad by 85-ton to 150-ton trucks, then bulldozed prior to leaching. The higher-grade material is crushed to 80% passing 0.75 inch and transported to the pad by a radial stacking conveyor.
Material is leached in three stages by drip systems, each applying 4,000 gallons per minute of leach solution to the heap. The first stage continues to leach older ore. The second stage may leach younger ore or run-of-mine materials. The third stage leaches the most recently crushed material on the pad. In this fashion, the grade of the leach solution builds as it travels through each stage. After the leach solution has traveled through all three stages, the solution is stored in the pregnant solution pond.
The pregnant leach solution is processed by absorbing the gold in the leach solution onto activated carbon. This is completed in one of the four carbon absorption plants on the property, each with five leach tanks. After the carbon has absorbed sufficient gold, the carbon is transported to the stripping, regeneration, and refinery plant. The carbon is stripped and the concentrated gold solution is pumped through electrowinning cells, where the gold is plated onto cathodes and then refined into gold/silver dore bars. Most of the makeup water used for leaching comes from a geothermal source located near the plant site.
The operation uses a six- month recovery cycle to model gold recovery for both run of mine and crushed materials. Table 6 shows the expected recovery for gold over the six-month period.
TABLE 6 FLORIDA CANYON MINE HEAP LEACH RECOVERY MODEL
Cutoff Grade Calculation. The internal cutoff grade calculation assumes the material is already inside an optimum pit and must be mined. The decision is where to send the material. If a profit can be made by processing the material rather than sending it to the waste dump then the material should be processed. The internal cutoff grade calculation removes the mining cost from the cutoff calculation. A $350 ounce gold price is used for the cutoff grade calculation. Set forth below are the cutoff grades used for the respective mines.
For our Florida Canyon Mine two types of ore are processed. Higher grade material is sent to the crusher and after crushing is placed on the heap. The cutoff grade for this material ranges from 0.010 to 0.022 ounces of gold per short ton depending on location and type of rock. Material that is below this cutoff grade, but above a grade of 0.005 to 0.008 ounces of gold per short ton is sent to the heap without crushing, and termed run-of-mine (ROM) material.
For our Standard Mine all material would be run of mine (ROM). The cutoff grade for this material ranges from 0.005 to 0.006 ounces of gold per short ton.
MONTANA TUNNELS MINE
Our Montana Tunnels Mine, owned and operated by Montana, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, is an open pit gold mine located approximately five miles west of Jefferson City, Montana, with gravity and flotation processing facilities. Operations at the Montana Tunnels Mine commenced in 1987.
Location. The Montana Tunnels Mine is located about five miles west of Jefferson City, Montana. We are currently operating a 16,000-ton per day flotation plant (upgraded in 2003) and open pit mine at the deposit. The Montana Tunnels Mine operation is located in the historic "Wickes-Corbin" mining district. Our plan involves mining inside the current open pit to extract the remaining reserves. We have also studied alternates for future expansion including underground mining and rerouting a creek to allow the pit to expand to the northwest.
Land Area. We own or lease an aggregate of 5,023.2 acres in fee and patented lands at the Montana Tunnels Mine. The property consists of 136 wholly or partially owned patented claims (2,345.14 acres), three patented leased claims (45.19 acres) expiring on March 19, 2004, and 2,632.87 acres of owned fee lands. All patented claims and fee lands have been surveyed. In addition, 213 unpatented claims are maintained (4,260 acres). We estimate that 90% of the unpatented claims have been surveyed. A number of claims outside the contiguous mining claims and fee land are isolated.
Production. Production during 2003 was lower for the reasons stated below. Approximately 15% of its annual gold production in the form of dore, an unrefined material consisting of approximately 90% gold, which is then further refined. The remainder of the Montana Tunnels Mine's production is in the form of zinc-gold concentrate and a lead-gold concentrate. The concentrates are shipped to a smelter, and after smelting charges, we are paid for the metal content. The Montana Tunnels Mine was idle for approximately four months in 2002, while we removed waste rock at the Mine under our Phase I stripping program. Limited production resumed in October 2002, and full production on the K-Pit resumed in April 2003. Since that time, the Montana Tunnels Mine has experienced pit wall problems that have resulted in significant changes to the mine plan, including an accelerated Phase II stripping schedule to remove 10 million tons of material that slid off the southwest pit wall. We anticipate completing Phase II by mid-2004, which should provide a four-year mine life and a return to the historical gold production levels. We have all permits in place to complete this development.
The following table sets forth annual production levels for gold, silver, lead and zinc at the Montana Tunnels Mine since 1999:
TABLE 7 MONTANA TUNNELS MINE PRODUCTION HISTORY
Mining Claim Description. The Montana Tunnels Mine is located in Section 8 of Township 7 North, Range 4 West, while the permit boundary covers portions of Section 4, 5, 8, 9, 15, 16, 17, and 20. Mining claims that cover the pit are listed in Table 8. About half of Section 8 lands are our owned fee lands.
TABLE 8 CLAIMS COVERING MONTANA TUNNELS MINE
Agreements and Encumbrances. None of the Montana Tunnels Mine reserves are subject to royalties, but we do have three leased claims that contain mineralization which will be subject to a 4.5% net smelter return royalty if
they are mined. The annual holding costs of Montana Tunnels Mine lands, exclusive of property taxes, total $47,150 as shown in Table 9.
TABLE 9 MONTANA, INC. LAND HOLDING COSTS
Mine equipment at the Montana Tunnels Mine is financed on an installment note purchase basis with Caterpillar Financial Services, Inc. ("CAT Financial"). The total initial purchase price of mine equipment was $15,265,256. As of February 29, 2004, the balance owed to CAT Financial was approximately $2.1 million.
At December 31, 2003, the net book value of the Montana Tunnels Mine, determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("US GAAP"), and its associated plant, equipment and capitalized pre-stripping costs was approximately $17.8 million.
Environmental Liabilities. In 1998, the citizens of Montana passed Initiative I-137, which banned cyanide leach mining of gold and silver. We believe Initiative I-137 will have minimal, if any, impact on our mine located in Montana. Although we use cyanide in our leaching processes, the cyanide is not used in a manner prohibited by Initiative I-137. In addition, we have a permit to utilize cyanide in our leaching process at our Diamond Hill Mine. As of the date hereof, we are not aware of any other state or local regulation that would have a material impact on our operations.
In March 2002, the Montana Department of Environmental Quality approved a minor amendment to the operating permit for the Montana tunnels Mine that will allow expansion of the present pit to mine about 20 million tons of ore in our K-Pit, process and dispose of 20 million tons of tailings (waste materials removed from a mining circuit after separation of the valuable minerals), and mine and dispose of 30 million tons of waste rock. The permit allows raising the tailings embankment by about 40 feet, and mining the K-Pit. The permit boundary contains 2,116 acres with permitted disturbance totaling 1,176.4 acres. Our current tailings dam is permitted to accommodate tailings from the 19.6 million ton combined ore reserved from Pits K and L, which are currently scheduled to be mined out in the second quarter of 2006. Further, if we receive approval from the Montana Department of Environmental Quality of our expansion plans, we plan to renew a phased lifting of our tailings dam to accommodate processing of an additional 28.7 million ore tons which would result from such expansion plans.
The bonding requirements for the Montana Tunnels Mine were met by the following bond instruments:
National Fire Insurance Company of Hartford, a unit of Continental Casualty Company ("CNA"), provides $14,987,688 of the total reclamation bonding for the Montana Tunnels Mine plan of operations at a deferred bond premium cost of $14 per $1,000 of bonding under a Term Bonding Agreement dated as of August 1, 2002. Under that agreement: (i) CNA is committed to furnish $14,987,688 in bonding for a 15-year term ending July 31, 2017; (ii) Montana, Inc. has agreed to deposit $75,000 each month (to be adjusted periodically according to our sales price of gold) into a collateral trust account established for CNA's benefit to secure Montana Tunnel Mine's reimbursement obligations to CNA until the value of the collateral trust account is equal to the outstanding penal sum of the CNA bond; (iii) Apollo Gold Corporation and Apollo Gold, Inc., have guaranteed Montana, Inc.'s obligations to CNA under the agreement; (iv) payment of premium is deferred without interest until the value of the collateral trust account equals the then-outstanding penal sum of the CNA bond; and (v) Montana, Inc. may terminate the agreement at any time by obtaining a release of the CNA bond either through posting a substitute bond with the State of Montana or otherwise, at which time all property held in the collateral trust account will revert to Montana, Inc.'s sole ownership. As of December 31, 2003, the collateral trust account held $1,827,981. As an incidental benefit, the Term Bonding Agreement also provides for an exploration surety bond with a penal sum of $53,186 to secure reclamation of exploration disturbances outside the Montana Tunnels Mine's permit boundary for the same 15-year term secured by the same collateral trust account.
The $128,697 in cash bond posted directly with the State of Montana does not require payment of any fees. However, interest accrues on cash balances at a short-term rate established by the State of Montana from time to time.
The $296,912 in real estate bonding is established by a bonding instrument recorded in the real estate records of Jefferson County, Montana. As of December 31, 2003, real property having an appraised value of approximately $422,500 was encumbered in order to meet the $296,912 bonding requirement. There are no on-going fees associated with the posting of the real estate bond. The real estate bond is in substance a mortgage, creating a security interest in the encumbered properties, and does not interfere with ongoing beneficial use of the encumbered properties by Montana, Inc., or its lessees.
Bonding requirements are subject to adjustment by the State of Montana for various reasons from time to time. As noted above, the bonding requirement for the Montana Tunnels Mine increased from $14,987,688 to $15,413,297 over the course of 2003. As of March 21, 2004, the bonding requirement is scheduled to increase to $15,888,955.
The Environmental Management Bureau of the Montana Department of Environmental Quality is required to inspect the site twice each year for compliance, with a written report required for each visit. The Montana Department of Environmental Quality Air Quality Bureau is required to inspect the site a minimum of once per year to review emissions. Other environmental inspections completed by regulatory agencies over the past several years include hazardous waste compliance, Water Quality Bureau permit inspections, Nuclear Regulatory Commission inspection for nuclear gauges and the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms inspections for mining explosives. No material notices of violation or non-compliance have been received from any agency as the result of a site inspection.
We have developed closure plans for the Montana Tunnels Mine and currently estimate the present value of the cost of closure, as of December 31, 2003, to total approximately $7.6 million, plus severance costs of approximately $1.5 million. We currently believe that cleanup of this site will commence during 2010.
Montana Tunnels Mine Geology. The Montana Tunnels Mine deposit is hosted in the central part of the Montana Tunnels Mine diatreme, an upward-sloping passage forced through sedimentary rock by volcanic activity. The Montana Tunnels Mine diatreme is a heterolithic breccia, a conglomerate rock with sharp fragments, that is matrix-rich, characterized by a sand-size fragmented matrix of quartz latitic composition surrounding subangular to well-rounded fragments of Cretaceous Elkhorn Mountains Volcanics, Tertiary Lowland Creek Volcanics, and clasts derived from the Cretaceous Butte Quartz Monzonite pluton.
There are two main zones of mineralization in the Montana Tunnels Mine: a central, pipe-like core of contiguous mineralization, and discontinuous zones of mineralization peripheral to the core deposit, termed fringe mineralization. The core of the deposit in plain view is oblong in shape and ranges from about 200 feet to 1000 feet in width, and from 1400 to 2000 feet in length, with a vertical extent of at least 2000 feet. The core zone strikes approximately N30 E and dips steeply (60 degrees to 80 degrees) to the northwest.
Montana Tunnels Mine Drilling And Sampling. As of December 31, 2003, the Montana Tunnels Mine database contains 891 reverse circulation, rotary, core and blasthole drill holes, totaling 466,609 feet, that were drilled from the mid 1970s to the present by numerous mining and exploration companies. There are 48,279 drill sample intervals in the Montana Tunnels Mine database, each with gold, silver, lead, zinc, and calculated gold-equivalent values. The Montana Tunnels Mine drill hole database is summarized in Table 10:
TABLE 10 MONTANA TUNNELS MINE DRILL HOLE DATABASE SUMMARY
Gold is analyzed by fire assay methods with a duplicate assay for each sample. Silver, lead, and zinc are analyzed by atomic absorption spectroscopy with a duplicate analysis once every 24 samples and are standard analyzed once every 12 samples. The majority of drill samples are analyzed at our onsite laboratory. Comparison of gold fire assay check samples indicate high sample
variance, though the average grade of the check sample datasets, as a whole, agreed closely. There is good correlation between silver, lead, and zinc duplicate samples.
The Montana Tunnels Mine was idle for approximately four months in 2002, while we made preparations to begin the removal of waste rock at the mine. Limited production resumed in October 2002, and full production on the K-Pit resumed in April 2003. Since that time, the Montana Tunnels Mine has experienced pit wall problems that have resulted in significant changes to the mine plan, including an accelerated stripping schedule to remove 10 million tons of material that slid off the southwest pit wall. The K-Pit should be completed during the second quarter of 2004. In October 2003, a second waste stripping project ("Phase II") known as the L-Pit project was initiated, and we intend to pre-strip approximately 17 million tons of waste from the south and west high walls of the open pit after which the L-Pit will supply about three years of ore. The final designed expansion at this time is the M-Pit, based on a $350/oz gold price optimized pit.
Montana Tunnels Mine Drill Hole Spacing. The Montana Tunnels Mine drill hole spacing is generally within the gold variogram range of 30 feet to 140 feet in the core. The core diatreme contains about 80% of the Montana Tunnels Mine Measured and Indicated Resources. The drill hole spacing in the fringe is generally wider than the variogram range of 50 feet to 170 feet. Measured mineralization is defined by those model blocks within one-half the variogram range from the nearest composite. About 57% of the model blocks above the 0.016 ounces AU EQ/T cutoff grade have the closest composite within one half of the variogram range. Indicated resources are model blocks with the closest composite within the average variogram range, which are about 43% of the model blocks above the 0.016 ounces AU EQ/T cutoff grade. Montana, Inc. considers material beyond the variogram range and within three times the variogram range to be inferred. We use an estimate of three times the variogram range because the core of the diatreme is generally known to almost always be mineralized.
Montana Tunnels Mine Reserves. The reserves reported for the Montana Tunnels Mine deposit conform to the definitions ascribed by the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum and guidelines adopted by CIM Council on August 20,2000 and the United States Securities Exchange Commission Industry Guide 7 definitions of Proven and Probable Reserves. The Montana Tunnels Mine reserves as of December 31, 2003 are made up of three pit expansions. The first expansion is the material remaining in the current pit expansion ("K22A"), which is scheduled to be mined out during the second quarter of 2004.
The second pit expansion of the Montana Tunnels Mine reserves is the L8B pit expansion, resulting from a redesign of the current pit ramp system and steeper pit slopes below the 5,000 feet elevation. The initial waste stripping from this expansion is nearly completed and is scheduled to supply all of the mill feed material for the next three years, until the M2 Pit can supply the remaining ore.
The third and potentially final pit phase is the M2 Pit. Mining permits have not been received for the M2 expansion; however, we have been in discussions regarding the expansion over the past two years and expect to apply for the necessary permits during the second quarter of 2004. A portion of the material contained in the low-grade stockpile is included in the reserve tabulation. Montana Tunnels Mine reserves as of December 31, 2003 are summarized in Table 11. The reserves were calculated using metal prices of $350/ounce gold, $5.50/ounce silver, $0.45/lb zinc, and $0.30/lb lead.
Note: 1. Mine Development Associates, located at 210 South Rock Blvd., Reno Nevada 89052, is an independent mining engineering company, and completed its review of our reserve estimates in February 2004.
Montana Tunnels Mine Recovery Factors. The reserves stated for the Montana Tunnels Mine are an estimate of what can be economically and legally recovered from the mine, and as such, incorporate losses for dilution and mining recovery. Reconciliation with actual production indicates the reserve estimates have been accurately predicting the material mined. Some of the recovery factors for the Montana Tunnels Mine are the following:
Montana Tunnels Mine Operations. Open pit mining at Montana Tunnels Mine is conducted with an equipment fleet either leased, owned or being purchased under installment notes. The equipment is in good working condition. The Montana Tunnels Mine operates two 12-hour shifts, seven days per week. Currently, mine production averages approximately 60,000 tons per day of ore and waste, of which 15,000 tons per day of ore is shipped to the crusher stockpile where it is loaded into the crusher hopper for size reduction before entering the plant. The plant uses a conventional flotation process to produce lead and zinc concentrates. Gold and silver are also recovered using a gravity circuit and refined at the plant to produce a dore. Flotation is a process used to concentrate the grade of the sulfide ore material to allow the economic shipment
of higher grade material to a smelter. The flotation process uses chemicals that are added to the crushed and milled ore and waste slurry. The concentrate that is created rises to the surface and overflows while the waste material sinks to the bottom of a tank. The concentrate is collected and dried and then shipped to a smelter. The waste material is collected and becomes the tailing material usually deposited in the tailing impoundment at the mine site. Gravity concentration is a process used to separate materials that have significantly different densities. Gravity separation is especially useful with gold ore recovery since it is a very dense material. Several types of equipment and systems are used to separate material with different densities. In 2003, we upgraded the flotation mill by the installation of a new primary crusher and a modification to the grinding circuit. The objective of these upgrades is to increase our total ore throughput at the Montana Tunnels Mine from 425,000 tons to 475,000 tons per month.
Table 12 shows the plant recovery through December 31, 2003:
TABLE 12 PLANT RECOVERY - INCEPTION THROUGH YEAR END 2003
Table 13 shows the distribution and grades of metals in the concentrates and tailings for 2002 and 2003 at the Montana Tunnels Mine:
TABLE 13 MONTANA TUNNELS MINE PLANT PRODUCTION SUMMARY
* grams of gravity concentrate
Gold and silver dore is shipped to Johnson Matthey in Salt Lake City, Utah for further refining, and our lead and zinc concentrates are shipped to Teck Cominco Metals Ltd. in British Columbia, Canada. The smelters that we use are in reasonable proximity to our mines; however, if we had to change smelters we could incur substantial additional transportation costs.
Montana Tunnels Mine Cutoff Grade Calculation. Three products are made from the ore mined from our Montana Tunnels Mine: dore containing gold and silver recovered from a gravity circuit, a lead concentrate and a zinc concentrate. The concentrates are shipped to a smelter in Canada for smelting and refining. There is a transportation charge for shipping the concentrate to the smelter. The smelter charges a treatment charge per ton of concentrate for
smelting, and a refining charge per unit of metal. In addition, the smelter does not recover all the metal in the concentrate and pays only for a portion of the contained metals. The metal prices, recovery, concentrate ratio and offsite costs are used to calculate ratios for each payable metal compared to an ounce of gold. For the Montana Tunnels Mine we use a historic formula to calculate equivalent gold values: Au Eq = Au + Ag/96.105 + Pb/194.707 + Zn/63.230.
DEVELOPMENT AND EXPLORATION PROPERTIES
We conduct exploration activities. Our exploration projects located in Canada are owned and operated by Apollo Gold Corporation, while our exploration projects located in the United States are generally owned and operated by Apollo Gold Exploration, Inc. We own or control patented and unpatented mining claims, fee land, and state and private leases in the United States and Canada. Our strategy regarding reserve replacement is to concentrate our efforts on: (1) existing operations where an infrastructure already exists; (2) other properties presently being developed; and (3) advanced-stage exploration properties that have been identified as having potential for additional discoveries. We are currently concentrating our activities at our Black Fox Mining Project (near the site of the former Glimmer Mine), the Pirate Gold Prospect and the Standard Mine Area. For the year ended December 31, 2003, we spent $1.61 million and $3.94 million on the exploration and development of the Standard Mine and Black Fox Project, respectively (both amounts of which have been capitalized for accounting purposes and we expensed $2.12 million); therefore, we have spent approximately $7.67 million on total exploration and development expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2003. Exploration expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were approximately $2,117,000, $451,000, and $94,000, respectively. The following discussion regarding our exploration activities contain estimates, attributes and other information regarding our properties; however, no assurance can be given that the estimate of the amount of metal or the indicated level of recovery of these metals or other attributes of the properties will be realized.
BLACK FOX PROPERTY
On September 9, 2002, we completed the acquisition of certain real estate and related assets of the Glimmer Mine from Exall Resources Limited ("Exall"), and Glimmer Resources Inc. ("Glimmer") (now known as our Black Fox Exploration Project or Black Fox). The Glimmer Mine was a former gold producer that ceased operations in May 2001 due to the low price of gold. We paid to Exall and Glimmer an aggregate purchase price consisting of $2 million in cash and an aggregate of 2,080,000 of our common shares. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition, an additional $2,300,000 is payable to Exall and Glimmer at the time the Glimmer Mine reaches commercial production (defined to mean a minimum of 30 consecutive days of production with an average of 300 tonnes, or more, of output from the Glimmer Mine).
Location. The Black Fox development project is located in the Kirkland Lake Mining District, approximately five miles east of Matheson and 40 miles east of Timmins, Ontario. Lake Abitibi is six miles northwest of the project site. The property encompasses over 1,200 acres within the Hislop and Beatty Townships. The majority of the property is private fee land.
Geology. The Black Fox development project sits astride the Destor-Porcupine (DF) Fault System, which is a deep break in the Precambrian rocks of the Abitibi Greenstone Belt. This fault system hosts many of the deposits in the Timmins area. The system regionally strikes east-west and dips variably to the south. Black Fox lies on the southern limb of a large scale fold on a flexure in the DF Fault where the strike changes from east-west to southeast. Folded and altered basalts are the host rocks for mineralization.
Gold occurs as free gold in quartz veining and stockworks and in gold associated with pyrite.
Targets. We purchased Black Fox as an advanced exploration project. We believe the potential for the property lies in new ore zones at depth and along strike of the Destor-Porcupine Trend. We are testing the potential of this property in several stages.
We currently anticipate that the development and commercialization of our Black Fox Property will require three phases. In September 2002, we completed the acquisition of certain assets known as our Black Fox Property from two unrelated third parties, Exall Resources Limited and Glimmer Resources, Inc. The Black Fox Property is located east of Timmins, Ontario. The first phase commenced in early 2003, and involved shallow drilling to test the open pit potential and deep drilling of core holes from 200 to 500 meters in depth. By the end of 2003, a total of 297 surface core holes had been completed for a total of 271,000 feet in these programs. Surface exploration was also started on the Black Fox Property, and the land package was increased from 805 acres to approximately 1,500 acres by the end of 2003.
We have begun the second phase of our Black Fox project. The second phase will provide for the development of underground access for further exploratory drilling. We plan to develop an underground ramp from existing structures. We currently anticipate commencing the second phase of underground drilling in 2004. We also plan to begin the permitting process for the third phase of the Black Fox project, and anticipate that this process will require approximately two years, based on a plan for combined open pit and underground mine, with on-site milling, at a capacity of 1500 metric tons of ore per day. The third phase will include the construction of the mine and processing facilities, at an aggregate estimated cost of approximately $45.0 million.
We met the bonding requirements established by the Province of Ontario for the Black Fox Project through the following bonding instruments:
Our obligations to reimburse TD Canada Trust for any drawing under the letter of credit is secured by our maintenance of an amount equal to the amount available for drawing in a deposit account pledged to TD Canada Trust. We pay an annual letter of credit fee equal to 1% of the amount available for drawing. We earn interest on the deposit account at a rate established by TD Canada Trust from time to time.
Black Fox Mine Drilling and Sampling. As of December 31, 2003, we had completed a total of 297 surface diamond drill holes totaling over 82,000
meters. Our drilling supplemented the 284 surface drill holes and 740 underground drill holes drilled by prior owners. Table 14 below summarizes the drill hole database.
TABLE 14 BLACK FOX PROJECT DRILL HOLE DATABASE
Black Fox Reserves. The Black Fox Project reserves were developed by completing a pre-feasibility study of developing an open pit mine on the Black Fox property. This study did not consider underground mining as an option; this will be addressed in the final feasibility study.
Pit optimization studies were completed using the following parameters for the deposit.
- Overburden mining cost - $US 1.00 per tonne of material; - Rock mining cost - $US 1.25 per tonne of material; - Processing cost - $US 9.00 per tonne ore; - General and Administrative cost - $US 3.50 per tonne ore; - Plant gold recovery - 96%; - Assume 50% of existing underground workings backfilled with material having a density of 2.0; - Pit Slopes - 480 overall in rock with ramp; 19 degree overburden.
The pit slopes were based on recommendations by Golder Associates for the rock portion of the pit. The overburden can be as thick as 40 meters in the area of the pit. Geotechnical testing has not been completed for the overburden materials, however a preliminary drilling program to gather samples has been completed. We believe the current estimate of a 3:1 slope (19 degree) in the alluvium is a reasonable assumption at this point of the study, however the recommended overburden pit slopes may be different after the geotechnical testing has been completed. In addition, the geotechnical parameters developed for the overburden could also impact the waste dump height, (currently 50 meters), overburden dump slope and height (currently 30 meters), and the tailings area storage capacity per square meter. Table 15 summarizes the results of pit optimization studies, which illustrates that the size of the ultimate pit does not change much between $300 and $375/oz gold prices, but does increase significantly at $400.
TABLE 15 BLACK FOX PROJECT PIT OPTIMIZATION
Following the pit optimization, a final pit and an initial pit were designed using the optimized pit shapes of the $400 and $200 optimized pits respectively as a templates for design. Table 16 illustrates the proven and probable reserves of the Black Fox Project available by open pit mining using the designed pits and a $350/oz gold price to establish the internal cutoff grade of 1.27 g Au/t.
TABLE 16 BLACK FOX PROJECT PROVEN AND PROBABLE RESERVES
PIRATE GOLD PROSPECT
The Pirate Gold Prospect is owned by Apollo Gold Exploration, Inc., and is one of our mineral exploration properties located in Nevada approximately 30 miles south of the Florida Canyon Mine. The Pirate Gold Prospect is located on the northern end of the Eugene Mountain range and the Mill City Mining District, Humboldt County, Nevada. It consists of 43 mining
claims staked on U.S. Bureau of Land Management land. Both Pirate Gold Prospect and Florida Canyon Mine share a similar geologic setting. While no determination has been made, we believe that the Pirate Gold prospect may have the potential to contain many positive attributes. It shares many similar attributes with our Florida Canyon Mine, with the most prominent being amounts of visible gold. Intersecting faults and dikes have allowed the formation of very high-grade ore shoots.
Pursuant to an assignment agreement made as of March 1, 2002 between Pirate Gold LLC, Winnemucca, Nevada ("Pirate Gold") and Nevoro, Nevoro was assigned all of Pirate Gold's right, title and interest in a mining lease (the "Mining Lease"), effective June 22, 2001, between Pronto Prospects LLC, Winnemucca, Nevada, as lessor and Pirate Gold as lessee. The Mining Lease has an initial term of 15 years, subject to renewal on a year-to-year basis so long as the lessee is engaged in commercial production. Commercial production is defined to mean that amount of production which, during the calendar year in which the initial term expires and each calendar year thereafter, results in payment to the lessor of production royalties at least equal to the advance minimum royalties payable in the year in question. We are required to pay advance minimum royalty payments of $10,000 on or before the Mining Lease's anniversary date in years 2 and 3, increasing to minimum advance royalty payments of $15,000 in years 4 through 15. Such minimum royalty payments are to be made in lieu of net smelter return royalties to guarantee minimum payment until commercial production commences. We are required to pay a net smelter return royalty based on the price of gold, from a low of 2.5% if the price of gold is less than or equal to $299 per ounce, increasing in increments of 0.5% for each $25 increase in the price of gold, up to a maximum net smelter return royalty of 5% (applicable when the price of gold exceeds $400 per ounce). In addition, we will be required to spend a minimum of $50,000 on exploration expenses in year 1; increasing to a minimum of $100,000 in years 2 through 4 and a minimum of $250,000 in years 5 through 15. Any expenditures of work in excess of the amount in any calendar year will be credited against the amount required to be performed in any subsequent year or years. Either party, without the consent of the other party, may assign the Mining Lease. In the event that we are in default in the performance of our obligations under the Mining Lease, the lessor has the option of forfeiting the Mining Lease, subject to our right to make corrective measures within 30 calendar days from the date we receive written notice.
Location. The Pirate Gold Prospect is located on the northern end of the Eugene Mountain range and the Mill City Mining District, Humboldt Co., Nevada. It is located in T35N, R34E, Section 2l and T35N, R35E, Section 18. The prospect consists of 43 mining claims staked on U.S. Bureau of Land Management land.
Geology. The claim block is made up of inerbedded phyllite, limestone and sandstone of the Triassic to Jurassic age Auld Lang Syne group. Bedding generally strikes northeast, with dips being variable. Quaternary alluvium covers most of the flat areas and the valley. High angle northeast and northwest trending faults transect the project area. In the southern part of the Eugene Mountains, near the Stank Mine, the Stank Fault occurs. It strikes northwest and is reported to dip at approximately 45 degrees to the southwest in underground exposures. It has been interpreted as being a thrust fault.
Cretaceous age granodiorite intrudes the area. Stocks are visible in the southern portions of the Eugene Mountains, while further north in the project area dacite dikes are common. Diorite dikes of an unknown age are also present. Both types of dikes intruded along active faults, which have seen post intrusion movement. Silicification in the sediments adjacent to the dikes helped to heal the fault zone and make the sediments quite brittle. During subsequent fault movement, the silicification allowed the faults to stay open and form pathways
for fluid migration. It appears that ore shoots occurred where northeast or northwest trending fault zones intersected the dikes.
Gold occurs in veins that range in width from one to 20 feet. The gangue, or base rock in which the gold is found, is quartz and calcite, with multiple stages of mineralization being visible.
This property has seen production in the past. Four tunnels access several small ore shoots. A small amount of development waste rock is all that exists in the dump of the lower adit. It appears that nearly all of the material mined in the upper three adits was direct shipping ore, as virtually no waste dump material exists. The upper adits access a stope which daylights to the surface. This stope is estimated to have an average width of 15 feet and to be 50 feet in both height and length. This would indicate that approximately 2,700 tons of high-grade material was removed. Abundant visible gold can still be panned from ore material remaining on the stope wall. It is estimated that this material would grade multiple ounces of gold per ton. There are a series of other similar stopes that have been mined but are not currently accessible. Recently, a second high-grade vein was exposed in a bulldozer cut, located approximately 500 feet east of the adits. This second vein indicates the likelihood of a series of subparallel mineralized veins in this area. Substantial specimens of free gold (gold nuggets found on the ground) from this site have been recovered by predecessor owners. Visible gold was also present in the upper portions of some of the larger mines near this property.
Targets. We believe that the high-grade veins seen on the surface may be an indication of a much larger system at depth. The rocks exposed on the surface are phyllites. The phyllites could form bulk tonnage gold deposits if they were first silicified and then shattered. A low-angle intrusive would make an effective cap to the mineralizing fluids. Over-pressuring of the system and subsequent breakage of the cap would cause wide spread silicification and gold mineralization of the phyllites. Repeated brecciation, boiling and rehealing of the cap would form a large high-grade deposit. The high-grade veins at the surface would only be indications of the feeding structures at depth.
An additional target would be where the faults that host the high-grade veins intersect other favorable rock types at depth. Massive sandy limestone units can be seen in the southern parts of the Eugene Mountains. These would be good host rocks for a replacement style ore body, if they can be traced to the project area. The strike and dip of these units indicate that they could be present at depth. As was noted previously, large, low angle thrust faults have been documented to occur in the southern part of the Eugene Mountains. These low-angle shears could very well be present below the surface in the project area. These faults were apparently open during the emplacement of the granodiorite dikes and could also have been intruded. Low-angle, sill-like, intrusions, have formed conduits and caps to mineralizing fluid migration in many of the larger gold districts in Nevada. Their presence would be a positive attribute to the property.
We believe that the Pirate Gold Prospect either contains or has the potential to contain many favorable attributes. The presence of an abundance of visible gold may be indicative of a very active mineralized system at depth. The exposed phyllite host rocks are conducive to the formation of bonanza-type vein deposits. The proper traps and host rocks for large tonnage deposits also occur nearby. They could be projected to intersections with the high-grade feeder structures visible on the surface and possibly form large deposits at depth.
An estimate of the ultimate values of these deposits can, at present, only be derived by considering known deposits in the area, such as the Sleeper Mine. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to locate or extract
any material quantity of gold or other metals at the Pirate Gold Prospect, or that any mining activities at that site would be profitable. In 2003, we conducted 9,363 feet of reverse circulation drilling on the Pirate Gold Prospect, and we currently anticipate another 10,000 feet of exploration drilling in 2004.
Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. At December 31, 2003, we did not have any ore reserves for the Pirate Gold Prospect.
The bonding requirements established by BLM for the Pirate Gold Project were met by Apollo Gold Exploration, Inc., through the following bond instruments:
We do not incur any fees in connection with the $2,500 US Bank pledged certificate of deposit account. We earn interest on the account at a rate established by US Bank from time to time. Our obligations to reimburse Washington Mutual Bank for any drawing under the letter of credit is secured by our maintenance of an amount equal to the amount available for drawing in a deposit account pledged to Washington Mutual Bank. We pay an annual letter of credit fee equal to 2% of the amount available for drawing. We earn interest on the deposit account at a rate established by Washington Mutual Bank from time to time.
NUGGET FIELD PROSPECT
The Nugget Field Prospect is owned and operated by Apollo Gold Exploration, Inc. While no determination has been made, we believe that the Nugget Field Prospect could have the potential to contain many positive attributes.
Location. Nugget Field is located approximately 30 miles southwest of the Pirate Gold Prospect, on the east side of the Majuba Mountains, within the Antelope mining district. Thirty-two lode mining claims have been located in T32N, R32E, Section 18.
Geology. The rocks surrounding the Nugget Field are principally Triassic age slates and phyllites. Faults trending northeast and northwest have been documented to offset the sediments. Pre-tertiary age dacite and diorite dikes and sills have intruded the area. The project area is mostly covered by quaternary alluvium. The alluvium has been the host for abundant placer gold. The gold that has been historically recovered often still shows crystals and other delicate textures. It is apparent that the gold has traveled very little, if at all. The claim block lies on a paleo-shoreline of ancient Lake Lahontan, which was once a large body of water but is now nearly dried up. The gold was probably weathered from portions of the underlying rocks and deposited nearby. Large, massive, northeast trending quartz veins protrude through the alluvium and may be related to the gold. There is no way of estimating the total amount of placer gold taken from this area, due to its having been prospected on and off for the last 70 years.
Targets. The source of the placer gold has never been found. The delicate nature of the gold indicates that it has not traveled far. We believe that the source is probably beneath the alluvium. The massive quartz veins may be related to nearby quartz, calcite and gold veins. These veins would have eroded faster than the bull quartz due to the carbonate content. The source of the placer gold could be found by projecting the intersections of the northeast and northwest trending faults with the dikes and sills that can be seen in the surrounding hillsides. Various types of electromagnetic geophysical methods could be used to further refine the potential targets.
A second target would be the projection of the high-grade structural intersections deeper to more favorable host rocks. The phyllites tend to produce tighter more restricted ore bodies. The Triassic sediment package in this area generally contains a large amount of sandy limestone that can host large tonnage gold deposits. Higher grade, structurally controlled deposits are also possible.
An estimate of the ultimate values of these deposits can, at present, only be derived by considering known deposits in the area. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to locate or extract any material quantity of gold or other metals at the Nugget Field Prospect, or that any mining activities at that site will be profitable. As of December 31, 2003, we had not completed any exploratory drilling on the Nugget Field Prospect. A decision when and if we drill will be made after further investigation, which includes sampling, of the property.
Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. At December 31, 2003, we did not have any ore reserves for the Nugget Field Prospect.
The bonding requirements for the Nugget Field Prospect established by BLM were met by Apollo Gold Exploration, Inc., through the following bond instruments:
Our obligation to reimburse Washington Mutual Bank for any drawing under the letter of credit is secured by our maintenance of an amount equal to the amount available for drawing in a deposit account pledged to Washington Mutual Bank. We pay an annual letter of credit fee equal to 2% of the amount available for drawing. We earn interest on the deposit account at a rate established by Washington Mutual Bank from time to time.
DIAMOND HILL
Diamond Hill, an underground gold mine, is owned and maintained by Montana, Inc.
Since production commenced in 1996, Diamond Hill has mined over 775,000 tons of ore at an average grade of 0.233 ounces per ton gold. During 1998, Diamond Hill achieved an annual production of over 240,000 tons. Operations ceased in 2000.
Location. Diamond Hill is located approximately 28 miles southeast of Helena, Montana, in Broadwater County and on the east flank of the Elkhorn Mountains, within the Hassel Mining District.
Geology. Diamond Hill covers over 2,590 acres of patented and unpatented claims. We have 100% ownership of the main patented claims that contain the current deposits, subject to a 0.5 to 1% net smelter return and a 10% net profits royalty. We also have 50% ownership of four additional patented claims, which are peripheral to the main land package. As of December 31, 2003, we hold 103 unpatented claims and lease 19 unpatented claims. The current mine permit covers 270 acres with most of the disturbance within a 27-acre area.
The Diamond Hill ore bodies and mine workings are in solid unfractured rock and accordingly are amenable to low cost sublevel open stoping methods. Ore was transported to the Montana Tunnels mill facility by truck. There it was processed in a separate circuit designed for Diamond Hill ore. Most gold was recovered into a high grade pyrite concentrate and sold to Japanese smelters.
The mine is located in volcanic rocks adjacent to the Boulder Batholith, a dominant igneous intrusion that also hosts the famous Butte Copper mining district. The deposit is classed as a skarn hosted sulfide deposit where the predominant ore mineralogy is gold associated with pyrite and lesser other metal sulfides.
Target. Diamond Hill is currently on a standby care-and-maintenance basis. Although it is fully permitted to allow resumption of production, return of the mine to production would depend upon the success in finding additional ore. No exploration effort is currently planned.
An estimate of the ultimate values of these deposits can, at present, only be derived by considering known deposits in the area. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to locate or extract any material quantity of gold or other metals at the Diamond Hill Mine, or that any mining activities at that site would be profitable. In 2003, we did not conduct any exploration drilling on Diamond Hill. We are actively seeking to find a joint venture participant to share the risks of future activities or to divest the Diamond Hill Project. There can be no assurance that those efforts will be successful.
Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling and to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore. At December 31, 2003, we did not have any ore reserves for Diamond Hill.
Montana, Inc. met the bonding requirements for the Diamond Hill Project established by the State of Montana through the following bonding instruments:
We do not incur any fees in connection with the US Bank Savings Certificate Assignment. We earn interest on the deposit account at a rate established by U.S. Bank from time to time.
STANDARD MINE AREA
The Standard Mine Area is discussed above in the Florida Canyon Mine section. Historically, the Standard Mine Area has been operated in conjunction with the Florida Canyon Mine. In view of the relatively advanced stage of exploration and the geographical separation from the Florida Canyon Mine, we transferred the Standard Mine Area into one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, Standard Gold Mining, Inc. so that we may maintain it as a separate operation. In addition, we anticipate transferring other Florida, Inc. assets that need additional exploration to our exploration subsidiary, Apollo Gold Exploration, Inc. We are presently conducting development activities at the Standard Mine Area. In March 2003, we applied to the Nevada Environmental Protection Bureau of Mining Regulation and Reclamation Division for permits for the Standard Mine Area. The permits would allow us to mine up to 25 million tons of ore and would allow mining, mineral processing, reclamation and related activities. Until such permits are approved, we may not conduct such operations at the Standard Mine Area.
Buffalo Canyon consists of approximately 480 acres and is located immediately south and is contiguous to the Standard Mine Area in Humboldt County, Nevada. Buffalo Canyon is located on new property acquired by us in 2003 and added to our Standard Mine land package. We completed the Phase 1 drilling program (a total of 5,040 feet of reverse circulation drilling in 13 holes) at the Buffalo Canyon in December 2003.
Buffalo Canyon has a northern target, eastern target and southern target. We believe the most favorable area for mining is the northern target based upon a preliminary sectional model. In addition, the northern target returned favorable drilling results and we intend to initiate additional drilling in the future. Results from the eastern target were not as favorable and initial drilling in this area is not high-priority based on our present understanding of controls on mineralization. Results from the central target warrant no further drilling in this area.
WILLOW CREEK
Willow Creek is located in the east range of Pershing County, Nevada. Our unpatented claims are located in an area of significant placer mining and limited high grade underground production. Geologic mapping, sampling and target definition is planned in 2004 for this new exploration project.
REGULATION OF MINING ACTIVITY
Our U.S. mining operations are subject to inspection and regulation by the Mine Safety and Health Administration of the Department of Labor ("MSHA") under provisions of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. MSHA directives have had no material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial condition and we believe that we are substantially in compliance with the regulations promulgated by MSHA.
All of our exploration, development and production activities in the United States and Canada are subject to regulation by governmental agencies under one or more of the various environmental laws including but not limited to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA" or "Superfund"), which regulates and establishes liability for the release of hazardous substances, and the Endangered Species Act ("ESA"), which identifies endangered species of plants and animals and regulates activities to protect these species and their habitats. These laws address emissions to the air, discharges to water, management of wastes, management of hazardous substances, protection of natural resources, protection of antiquities
and reclamation of lands which are disturbed. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental regulations. Many of the regulations also require permits to be obtained for our activities. These permits normally are subject to public review processes resulting in public approval of the activity. While these laws and regulations govern how we conduct many aspects of our business, our management does not believe that they have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition at this time. Our projects are evaluated considering the cost and impact of environmental regulation on the proposed activity. New laws and regulations are evaluated as they develop to determine the impact on, and changes necessary to, our operations. It is possible that future changes in these laws or regulations could have a significant impact on some portion of our business, causing those activities to be economically reevaluated at that time. We believe that adequate provision has been made for disposal of mine waste and mill tailings at all of our operating and non operating properties in a manner that complies with current federal, state and provincial environmental requirements.
Environmental laws and regulations may also have an indirect impact on us, such as increased cost for electricity. Charges by smelters to which we sell our metallic concentrates and products have substantially increased over the past several years because of requirements that smelters meet revised environmental quality standards. We have no control over the smelters' operations or their compliance with environmental laws and regulations. If the smelting capacity available to us was significantly reduced because of environmental requirements or otherwise, it is possible that our operations could be adversely affected. See "Risk Factors - We Face Substantial Government Regulation and Environmental Risks."
LEGISLATION
From time to time, the U.S. Congress considers proposed amendments to the General Mining Law of 1872, as amended, which governs mining claims and related activities on federal lands. Legislation previously introduced in Congress would have changed the current patent procedures, imposed certain royalties on production and enacted new reclamation, environmental controls and restoration requirements with respect to mining activities on federal lands. Although a majority of our existing mining operations occur on private or patented property, changes to the General Mining Law, if adopted, could adversely affect our ability to economically develop mineral resources on federal lands. See "Risk Factors - We Face Substantial Government Regulation."
Our Canadian mining operations and exploration activities are subject to extensive federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations governing prospecting, development, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health and safety, mine safety and other matters. Compliance with such laws and regulations increases the costs of planning, designing, drilling, developing, constructing, operating and closing mines and other facilities. Such laws and regulations are subject to change and any amendments to current laws and regulations governing operations and activities of mining companies or more stringent implementation or interpretation thereof could have a material adverse impact on us, cause a reduction in levels of production and delay or prevent the development of new mining properties.
EMPLOYEES
As of March 15, 2004, we employed approximately 455 full time permanent employees at our operations in the United States and Canada. None of our employees are members of a labor union. Of these employees, approximately 440 are employed in mining operations, 10 in management and 5 in administrative
functions. As of March 15, 2004, the Florida Canyon Mine and the Montana Tunnels Mine employed approximately 185 and 253 full time non-unionized employees, respectively. We believe that relations with our employees are good.
FACILITIES
Our mineral properties are described above. Our executive corporate office is located at 4601 DTC Boulevard, Suite 750, Denver, Colorado 80237-2571. Our registered office is located at Suite 300, 204 Black Street, Whitehorse, Yukon Territory, Canada Y1A 2M9. We lease a portion of the building used for our executive corporate offices. We believe that our existing facilities are sufficient for our intended purposes.
RISK FACTORS
Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results and could negatively impact the value of our common shares. These risks have been separated into two groups: risks relating to our operations and risks related to the metals mining industry generally.
RISKS RELATING TO OUR OPERATIONS
WE ARE THE PRODUCT OF A RECENT MERGER, AND HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY ON WHICH TO EVALUATE OUR POTENTIAL FOR FUTURE SUCCESS.
We were formed as a result of a merger of two separate companies, Nevoro and Pursuit, in June 2002, and to date have only six fiscal quarters of combined operations. While both Nevoro's wholly-owned subsidiary, Apollo Gold, Inc., and Pursuit had a prior operating history, we have only a limited operating history as a combined company, upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects, and we have yet to develop sufficient experience regarding actual revenues to be received from our combined operations. Pursuit had net losses of $454,000, $420,0000 and $1,535,000 for the respective years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. The operations of Apollo Gold, Inc. were profitable in 2001, prior to the Plan of Arrangement. For the year ended December 31, 2003 we had a loss of approximately $2,186,000 and for the year ended December 31, 2002 we had a loss of approximately $3,051,000.
You must consider the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in situations such as ours, including but not limited to the ability to integrate our operations and eliminate duplicative costs. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected.
WE MAY BE INVOLVED IN ONGOING LITIGATION THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT US FROM TIME TO TIME.
We are engaged in litigation from time to time. On May 29, 2003 we successfully defended Safeco Insurance Company of America's ("Safeco's") appeal involving a mining reclamation bond in the amount of $16,936,130 issued by Safeco. The purpose of the bond is to provide financial guarantees to the United States Government to ensure that our Florida Canyon Mine in Pershing County, Nevada, will be reclaimed in the event we fail to do so. The provision of such financial guarantee is a condition of our operating permit. Loss of the litigation would have required us to find replacement bonding in a material amount. If any future claims result in a judgment against us or are settled on
unfavorable terms, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We are not engaged in any material litigation at this time. See "Legal Proceedings."
WE ARE DEPENDENT ON CERTAIN KEY PERSONNEL.
We are currently dependent upon the ability and experience of R. David Russell, our President and Chief Executive Officer; R. Llee Chapman, our Vice President-Finance, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Controller; Richard F. Nanna, our Vice President-Exploration; David K. Young, our Vice President-Business Development; Donald W. Vagstad, our Vice President-Legal, General Counsel and Secretary; Wade Bristol, our Vice President-United States Operations; Melvyn Williams, our Senior Vice President-Finance and Corporate Development; and Donald O. Miller, our Vice President-Human Resources and Administration. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain any or all of such officers. We currently do not carry key person insurance on any of these individuals, and the loss of one or more of them could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have entered into employment agreements with each of Messrs. Russell, Chapman, Nanna, Young, Vagstad and Bristol which provide for certain payments upon termination or resignation resulting from a change of control (as defined in such agreements). We compete with other companies both within and outside the mining industry in connection with the recruiting and retention of qualified employees knowledgeable in mining operations.
RISKS RELATING TO THE METALS MINING INDUSTRY
OUR EARNINGS MAY BE AFFECTED BY METALS PRICE VOLATILITY, SPECIFICALLY THE VOLATILITY OF GOLD AND ZINC PRICES.
We derive all of our revenues from the sale of gold, silver, lead and zinc and, as a result, our earnings are directly related to the prices of these metals. Changes in the price of gold significantly affect our profitability. Gold prices historically have fluctuated widely, based on numerous industry factors including:
- industrial and jewelry demand;
- central bank lending, sales and purchases of gold;
- forward sales of gold by producers and speculators;
- production and cost levels in major gold-producing regions; and
- rapid short-term changes in supply and demand because of speculative or hedging activities;
Gold prices are also affected by macroeconomic factors, including:
- confidence in the global monetary system;
- expectations of the future rate of inflation (if any);
- the strength of, and confidence in, the U.S. dollar (the currency in which the price of gold is generally quoted) and other currencies;
- interest rates; and
- global or regional political or economic events, including but not limited to acts of terrorism.
The current demand for, and supply of, gold also affects gold prices. The supply of gold consists of a combination of new production from mining and of existing stocks of bullion held by government central banks, public and private financial institutions, industrial organizations and private individuals. As the amounts produced by all producers in any single year constitute a small portion of the total potential supply of gold, normal variations in current production do not usually have a significant impact on the supply of gold or on its price. Mobilization of gold stocks held by central banks through lending and official sales may have a significant adverse impact on the gold price. If revenue from gold sales decline for a substantial period below the cost of production at any or all of our operations, we could be required to reduce our reserves and make a determination that it is not economically feasible to continue either the commercial production at any or all of our current operations or the exploration at some or all of our current projects.
Price volatility also appears in the silver, zinc and lead markets. In particular, our Montana Tunnels Mine has historically produced approximately 45 million pounds of these metals annually, and therefore we are subject to factors such as world economic forces and supply and demand.
All of the above factors are beyond our control and are impossible for us to predict. If the market prices for these metals fall below our costs to produce them for a sustained period of time, we will experience additional losses and may have to discontinue exploration and/or mining at one or more of our properties.
On March 15, 2004, the closing prices for gold, silver, zinc and lead were $398.10 per ounce, $7.10 per ounce, $0.50 per pound and $0.406 per pound, respectively.
THE VOLATILITY OF METALS PRICES MAY ALSO ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EXPLORATION EFFORTS.
Our ability to produce gold, silver, zinc and lead in the future is dependent upon our exploration efforts, and our ability to develop new ore reserves. If prices for these metals decline, it may not be economically feasible for us to continue our exploration of a project or to continue commercial production at some or all of our properties.
OUR ORE RESERVE ESTIMATES MAY NOT BE REALIZED.
We estimate our reserves on our properties as either "proven reserves" or "probable reserves". Our ore reserve figures and costs are primarily estimates and are not guarantees that we will recover the indicated quantities of these metals. We estimate proven reserve quantities through extensive sampling and testing of sites containing the applicable ore that allow us to have an established estimate as to the amount of such ore that we expect to extract from a site. Such sampling and tests are conducted by us and by an independent company hired by us. Probable reserves are computed with information similar to that used for proven resources, but the sites for sampling are less extensive, and the degree of certainty as to the content of a site is less. Reserves are estimates made by our technical personnel and no assurance can be given that the
estimate of the amount of metal or the indicated level of recovery of these metals will be realized. Reserve estimation is an interpretive process based upon available data. Further, reserves are based on estimates of current costs and prices. Our reserve estimates for properties that have not yet started may change based on actual production experience. In addition, the economic value of ore reserves may be adversely affected by:
- declines in the market price of the various metals we mine;
- increased production or capital costs; or
- reduced recovery rates.
Reserve estimates will change as existing reserves are depleted through production, as well as changes in estimates caused by changing production cost and/or metals prices. Changes in reserves may also reflect that grades of ore fed to process may be different from stated reserve grades because of variation in grades in areas mined, mining dilution, recoveries and other factors. Reserves estimated for properties that have not yet commenced production may require revision based on actual production experience.
Declines in the market price of metals, as well as increased production, capital costs and reduced recovery rates, may render ore reserves uneconomic to exploit unless the utilization of forward sales contracts or other hedging techniques is sufficient to offset such effects. If our realized price for the metals we produce were to decline substantially below the levels set for calculation of reserves for an extended period, there could be material delays in the exploration of new projects, increased net losses, reduced cash flow, restatements or reductions in reserves and asset write-downs in the applicable accounting periods. Reserves should not be interpreted as assurances of mine life or of the profitability of current or future operations. No assurance can be given that the estimate of the amount of metal or the indicated level of recovery of these metals will be realized.
WE MAY NOT ACHIEVE OUR PRODUCTION ESTIMATES.
We prepare estimates of future production for our operations. We develop our plans based on, among other things, mining experience, reserve estimates, assumptions regarding ground conditions and physical characteristics of ores (such as hardness and presence or absence of certain metallurgical characteristics) and estimated rates and costs of mining and processing. Our actual production may vary from estimates for a variety of reasons, including:
- risks and hazards of the types discussed in this section;
- actual ore mined varying from estimates of grade, tonnage, dilution and metallurgical and other characteristics;
- short-term operating factors relating to the ore reserves, such as the need for sequential development of ore bodies and the processing of new or different ore grades;
- mine failures, pit wall cave-ins or equipment failures;
- natural phenomena such as inclement weather conditions, floods and earthquakes;
- unexpected labor shortages or strikes;
- restrictions or regulations imposed by government agencies; and
- litigation pursued by governmental agencies or environmental groups.
Each of these factors also applies to sites not yet in production and to operations that are to be expanded. In these cases, we do not have the benefit of actual experience in our estimates, and there is a greater likelihood that the actual results will vary from the estimates.
THE SUCCESS OF OUR EXPLORATION PROJECTS IS UNCERTAIN.
From time to time we will engage in the exploration of new ore bodies. Our ability to sustain or increase our present level of production is dependent in part on the successful exploration of such new ore bodies and/or expansion of existing mining operations. The economic feasibility of such exploration projects is based upon many factors, including:
- estimates of reserves;
- metallurgical recoveries;
- capital and operating costs of such projects; and
- future gold/metal prices.
Exploration projects are also subject to the successful completion of feasibility studies, issuance of necessary governmental permits and receipt of adequate financing.
Exploration projects have no operating history upon which to base estimates of future cash flow. Our estimates of proven and probable ore reserves and cash operating costs are, to a large extent, based upon detailed geologic and engineering analysis. We also conduct feasibility studies that derive estimates of capital and operating costs based upon many factors, including:
- anticipated tonnage and grades of ore to be mined and processed;
- the configuration of the ore body;
- ground and mining conditions;
- expected recovery rates of the gold from the ore; and
- anticipated environmental and regulatory compliance costs.
It is possible that actual costs and economic returns may differ materially from our best estimates. It is not unusual in the mining industry for new mining operations to experience unexpected problems during the start-up phase and to require more capital than anticipated.
ORE EXPLORATION IN GENERAL, AND GOLD EXPLORATION IN PARTICULAR, ARE SPECULATIVE.
Exploration for ore is speculative, and gold exploration is highly speculative in nature. Exploration projects involve many risks and frequently are unsuccessful. There can be no assurance that our future exploration efforts for gold or other metals will be successful. Success in increasing our reserves will be the result of a number of factors, including the following:
- quality of management;
- geological and technical expertise;
- quality of land available for exploration; and
- capital available for exploration.
If we discover a site with gold or other mineralization, it may take several years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible. Mineral exploration, particularly for gold and silver, is highly speculative in nature, capital intensive, involves many risks and frequently is nonproductive. There can be no assurance that our mineral exploration efforts will be successful. Once mineralization is discovered, it may take a number of years from the initial phases of drilling until production is possible, during which time the economic feasibility of production may change. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling, to determine metallurgical processes to extract the metals from the ore and, in the case of new properties, to construct mining and processing facilities. As a result of these uncertainties, no assurance can be given that our exploration programs will result in the expansion or replacement of existing ore reserves that are being depleted by current production.
WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON OUR MINING PROPERTIES.
All of our revenues are currently derived from our mining and milling operations at the Montana Tunnels Mine and Florida Canyon Mine, which are low grade mines. If operations at either of these mines or at any of our processing facilities are reduced, interrupted or curtailed, as a result of natural phenomena, equipment malfunction or otherwise, our ability to generate future revenues and profits could be materially adversely affected.
POSSIBLE HEDGING ACTIVITIES COULD EXPOSE US TO LOSSES.
We have entered into hedging contracts for gold in the aggregate amount of 100,000 ounces involving the use of put and call options. The contracts give the holder the right to buy and us the right to sell stipulated amounts of gold at the upper and lower exercise prices, respectively. The contracts continue through April 25, 2005, with a put option of $295 per ounce and a call option of $345 per ounce. As at February 29, 2004, 72,280 ounces remained outstanding on these contracts. In the future, we may enter into additional hedging contracts that may involve outright forward sales contracts, spot-deferred sales contracts, the use of options which may involve the sale of call options and the purchase of all these hedging instruments. See "Selected Financial Information - - Hedging Activities."
WE FACE SUBSTANTIAL GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION.
Safety. Our U.S. mining operations are subject to inspection and regulation by the Mine Safety and Health Administration of the United States Department of Labor ("MSHA") under the provisions of the Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977.
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") also has jurisdiction over safety and health standards not covered by MSHA. Our policy is to comply with applicable directives and regulations of MSHA and OSHA.
Current Environmental Laws and Regulations. We must comply with environmental standards, laws and regulations that may result in greater or lesser costs and delays depending on the nature of the regulated activity and how stringently the regulations are implemented by the regulatory authority. The costs and delays associated with compliance with such laws and regulations could stop us from proceeding with the exploration of a project or the operation or future exploration of a mine. Laws and regulations involving the protection and remediation of the environment and the governmental policies for implementation of such laws and regulations are constantly changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. We have made, and expect to make in the future, significant expenditures to comply with such laws and regulations. These requirements include regulations under many state and U.S. federal laws and regulations, including:
- the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("CERCLA" or "Superfund") which regulates and establishes liability for the release of hazardous substances;
- the U.S. Endangered Species Act;
- the Clean Water Act;
- the Clean Air Act;
- the U.S. Resource Conservative and Recovery Act ("RCRA");
- the Migratory Bird Treaty Act;
- the Safe Drinking Water Act;
- the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act;
- the Federal Land Policy and Management Act;
- the National Environmental Policy Act; and
- the National Historic Preservation Act.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency continues the development of a solid waste regulatory program specific to mining operations such as ours, where the mineral extraction and beneficiation wastes are not regulated as hazardous wastes under RCRA.
Some of our partially owned properties are located in historic mining districts with past production and abandoned mines. The major historical mine workings and processing facilities owned (wholly or partially) by us are being targeted by the Montana Department of Environmental Quality ("MDEQ") for publicly-funded cleanup, which reduces our exposure to financial liability. We are participating with the MDEQ under Voluntary Cleanup Plans on those sites. Our cleanup responsibilities have been completed at the Corbin Flats ("CECRA") Facility and at the Gregory Mine site, both located in Jefferson County, Montana, under programs involving cooperative efforts with the MDEQ. The Corbin Flats CECRA Facility was the MDEQ's number one priority site in Jefferson County
targeted for cleanup under the Montana Comprehensive Environmental Cleanup and Responsibility Act ("CECRA"). The MDEQ has reimbursed us for more than half of our cleanup costs at the Corbin Flats CECRA Facility under two Montana State public environmental cleanup funding programs. MDEQ has completed remediation of the Washington Mine site at public expense under the Surface Mining Control and reclamation Act of 1977 ("SMCRA"). In February 2004 we consented to MDEQ's entry onto the portion of the Washington Mine site owned by us to undertake publically-funded remediation under SMCRA. In March, 2004, we entered into a definitive written settlement agreement with MDEQ and the BLM under which MDEQ will conduct publicly-funded remediation of the Wickes Smelter site under SMCRA and will grant us a site release in exchange for our donation of the portion of the site owned by us to BLM for use as a waste repository. However, there can be no assurance that we will continue to resolve disputed liability for historical mine and ore processing facility waste sites on such favorable terms in the future. We remain exposed to liability, or assertions of liability that would require expenditure of legal defense costs, under joint and several liability statutes for cleanups of historical wastes that have not yet been completed.
Environmental laws and regulations may also have an indirect impact on us, such as increased costs for electricity due to acid rain provisions of the United States Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Charges by refiners to which we sell our metallic concentrates and products have substantially increased over the past several years because of requirements that refiners meet revised environmental quality standards. We have no control over the refiners' operations or their compliance with environmental laws and regulations.
Potential Legislation. Changes to the current laws and regulations governing the operations and activities of mining companies, including changes in permitting, environmental, title, health and safety, labor and tax laws, are actively considered from time to time. We cannot predict such changes, and such changes could have a material adverse impact on our business. Expenses associated with the compliance with such new laws or regulations could be material. Further, increased expenses could prevent or delay exploration projects and could therefore affect future levels of mineral production.
WE ARE SUBJECT TO ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS.
Environmental Liability. We are subject to potential risks and liabilities associated with pollution of the environment and the disposal of waste rock and materials that could occur as a result of our mineral exploration and production. To the extent that we are subject to environmental liabilities, the payment of such liabilities or the costs that we may incur to remedy environmental pollution would reduce funds otherwise available to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to fully remedy an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending completion of the required remedy. The potential exposure may be significant and could have a material adverse effect on us. We have not purchased insurance for environmental risks (including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from exploration and production) because it is not generally available at a reasonable price.
Environmental Permits. All of our exploration, development and production activities are subject to regulation under one or more of the various state, federal and provincial environmental laws and regulations in Canada and the U.S. Many of the regulations require us to obtain permits for our activities. We must update and review our permits from time to time, and are subject to
environmental impact analyses and public review processes prior to approval of the additional activities. It is possible that future changes in applicable laws, regulations and permits or changes in their enforcement or regulatory interpretation could have a significant impact on some portion of our business, causing those activities to be economically reevaluated at that time. Those risks include, but are not limited to, the risk that regulatory authorities may increase bonding requirements beyond our financial capabilities. The posting of bonding in accordance with regulatory determinations is a condition to the right to operate under all material operating permits, and therefore increases in bonding requirements could prevent our operations from continuing even if we were in full compliance with all substantive environmental laws.
WE FACE STRONG COMPETITION FROM OTHER MINING COMPANIES FOR THE ACQUISITION OF NEW PROPERTIES.
Mines have limited lives and as a result, we may seek to replace and expand our reserves through the acquisition of new properties. In addition, there is a limited supply of desirable mineral lands available in the United States and other areas where we would consider conducting exploration and/or production activities. Because we face strong competition for new properties from other mining companies, some of whom have greater financial resources than we do, we may be unable to acquire attractive new mining properties on terms that we consider acceptable.
THE TITLES TO SOME OF OUR UNITED STATES PROPERTIES MAY BE DEFECTIVE.
Certain of our mineral rights consist of "unpatented" mining claims created and maintained in accordance with the U.S. General Mining Law of 1872. Unpatented mining claims are unique U.S. property interests, and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims is often uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations under the General Mining Law. Also, unpatented mining claims are always subject to possible challenges by third parties or contests by the federal government. The validity of an unpatented mining claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with a complex body of federal and state statutory and decisional law. In addition, there are few public records that definitively control the issues of validity and ownership of unpatented mining claims.
In recent years, the U.S. Congress has considered a number of proposed amendments to the General Mining Law. Although no such legislation has been adopted to date, there can be no assurance that such legislation will not be adopted in the future. If ever adopted, such legislation could, among other things, impose royalties on gold production from currently unpatented mining claims located on federal lands. If such legislation is ever adopted, it could have an adverse impact on earnings from our operations, could reduce estimates of our reserves and could curtail our future exploration and development activity on federal lands.
While we have no reason to believe that the existence and extent of any of our properties are in doubt, title to mining properties are subject to potential claims by third parties claiming an interest in them. The failure to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including failure to pay taxes, carry out and file assessment work, may invalidate title to portions of the properties where the mineral rights are not owned by us.
OUR OPERATIONS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY RISKS AND HAZARDS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MINING INDUSTRY.
Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards including:
- environmental hazards;
- political and country risks;
- industrial accidents;
- labor disputes;
- unusual or unexpected geologic formations;
- cave-ins;
- slope failures and landslides; and
- flooding and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions.
Such risks could result in:
- damage to or destruction of mineral properties or producing facilities;
- personal injury or death;
- environmental damage;
- delays in mining;
- monetary losses; and
- legal liability.
For some of these risks, we maintain insurance to protect against these losses at levels consistent with our historical experience and industry practice. However, we may not be able to maintain this insurance, particularly if there is a significant increase in the cost of premiums. Insurance against environmental risks is generally too expensive for us and other companies in our industry, and, therefore, we do not maintain environmental insurance. Recently we have experienced several slides at our Montana Tunnels Mine that has affected our milling operations causing us to lose valuable production time and consequently reducing our revenues. To the extent we are subject to environmental liabilities, we would have to pay for these liabilities. Moreover, in the event that we are unable to fully pay for the cost of remedying an environmental problem, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into other interim compliance measures.
SPECIAL NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements that reflect our current expectations and projections about our future results, performance, prospects, and opportunities. We have tried to identify these forward-looking statements by using words such as "may," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "plan," "estimate," and similar expressions. These
forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects, or opportunities to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties, and other factors include, but are not limited to:
- metal prices and price volatility;
- amount of metal production;
- costs of production;
- remediation, reclamation, and environmental costs;
- regulatory matters;
- the results or settlement of pending litigation;
- cash flow;
- revenue calculations;
- the nature and availability of financing; and
- project risks.
See "Risk Factors" for a description of these factors. Other matters, including unanticipated events and conditions, also may cause our actual future results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. We cannot assure you that our expectations will prove to be correct. In addition, all subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements mentioned above. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. All of these forward-looking statements are based on our expectations as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as required by federal securities laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
ITEM 3.