ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
THCR
In July 1995, THCR entered into a ten-year lease with The Trump-Equitable Fifth Avenue Company, a corporation wholly-owned by Trump (the "Trump-Equitable Company"), pursuant to which THCR leased office space in the Trump Tower located in New York City (the "Trump Tower") for general, executive and administrative purposes (the "THCR Trump Tower Lease Agreement"). For the initial five-year period, commencing July 1, 1995 to June 30, 2000, the fixed rent was $115,500 per
year, payable in equal monthly installments. For the remaining five-year period, commencing July 1, 2000 to June 30, 2005, the fixed rent was $129,250 per year, paid in equal monthly installments. In addition, the THCR Trump Tower Lease Agreement required THCR to pay as additional rent, among other things, a portion of the property taxes due each year. THCR had the option to terminate this lease upon 90 days' prior written notice and payment of $32,313. In March 2000, the THCR Trump Tower Lease Agreement was terminated, and THCR moved into the office space in the Trump Tower previously occupied by Taj Associates pursuant to a lease agreement, dated September 1992 (the "Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease"), with Trump-Equitable Company for marketing purposes. See "Executive Compensation; Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation."
In September 1992, Taj Associates had entered into the Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease with Trump-Equitable Company for the lease of office space in the Trump Tower in New York City for marketing purposes. The monthly payments under the lease had been $1,000, and the premises were leased at such rent for four months in 1992, the full 12 months in each of 1993 and 1994 and eight months in 1995. On September 1, 1995, the Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease was renewed for an additional term of five years with an option for Taj Associates to terminate the Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease on September 1st of each year, upon six months' prior written notice and payment of the six months' rent. Under the renewed Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease, the monthly payments were $2,285. In March 2000, THCR terminated the THCR Trump Tower Lease Agreement, assumed the Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease and moved THCR's offices into the office space previously occupied by Taj Mahal. See "Executive Compensation; Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation."
Trump Plaza
Plaza Associates owns and leases several parcels of land in and around Atlantic City, New Jersey, each of which is used in connection with the operation of Trump Plaza and each of which is subject to the liens of the mortgages associated with the TAC I Notes, the TAC II Notes and the TAC III Notes (collectively, the "Plaza Mortgages") and certain other liens.
Plaza Casino Parcel. The Trump Plaza Main Tower is located on the Boardwalk in Atlantic City, New Jersey, next to the Atlantic City Convention Center. It occupies the entire city block (approximately 2.38 acres) bounded by the Boardwalk, Mississippi Avenue, Pacific Avenue and Columbia Place (the "Plaza Casino Parcel").
The Plaza Casino Parcel consists of four tracts of land, three of which are currently owned by Plaza Associates and one of which is leased by Plaza Hotel Management Company ("PHMC") to Plaza Associates pursuant to a non-renewable ground lease, which expires on December 31, 2078 (the "PHMC Lease"). The land which is subject to the PHMC Lease is referred to as the "Plaza Leasehold Tract." Seashore Four Associates ("Seashore Four") and Trump Seashore Associates ("Trump Seashore") had leased to Plaza Associates two of the tracts which are now owned by Plaza Associates. Trump Seashore and Seashore Four are 100.0% beneficially owned by Trump and are, therefore, affiliates of THCR. Plaza Associates purchased the tract from Seashore Four in January 1997 and the tract from Trump Seashore in September 1996 for $10.1 million and $14.5 million, respectively.
The PHMC Lease is a "net lease" pursuant to which Plaza Associates, in addition to the payment of fixed rent, is responsible for all costs and expenses with respect to the use, operation and ownership of the Plaza Leasehold Tract and the improvements now, or which may in the future be, located thereon, including, but not limited to, all maintenance and repair costs, insurance premiums, real estate taxes, assessments and utility charges. The improvements located on the Plaza Leasehold Tract are owned by Plaza Associates during the term of the PHMC Lease, and upon the expiration of the term of the PHMC Lease (for any reason), ownership of such improvements will vest in PHMC. The PHMC Lease also contains an option pursuant to which Plaza Associates may purchase the Plaza Leasehold Tract at certain times during the term of such PHMC Lease under certain circumstances.
Trump Plaza East. In connection with the Taj Acquisition in April 1996, Plaza Associates exercised its option to purchase certain of the fee and leasehold interests comprising the Trump Plaza East Tower for an aggregate purchase price of $28.0 million. Plaza Associates currently leases a portion of the land which comprises Trump Plaza East Tower from an unrelated third party.
In September 1993, Warner Brothers entered into the Time Warner Plaza Lease pursuant to which Warner Brothers leased approximately 17,000 square feet of retail space with Boardwalk frontage in Trump Plaza's East Tower for the operation of the Plaza Warner Brothers Store for a period of 10 years. Pursuant to the Time Warner Plaza Lease, Time Warner is obligated to pay to Trump Plaza an amount equal to (i) 7.5 percent (7.5%) of gross annual sales up to and including $15.0 million and (ii) 10 percent (10.0%) of gross sales in excess of $15.0 million. The Time Warner Plaza Lease also grants Time Warner the option to renew the Time Warner Plaza Lease for two additional five years terms.
Recent public reports, confirmed with Time Warner officials, indicate that Time Warner intends to close the Warner Brothers retail chain in the third quarter of calendar 2001, including the Plaza Warner Brothers Store, as a cost savings measure related to Time Warner's recent January 2001 merger with AOL. Management currently intends to utilize this space to expand its existing casino floor with additional slot machines.
Trump World's Fair. Using a portion of the net proceeds received by THCR from its initial public offering in June 1995, Plaza Associates acquired title to Trump World's Fair pursuant to an option to purchase. Further, Plaza Associates also entered into an easement agreement with the NJSEA with annual payments of $2.0 million. However, because of operational inefficiencies, including the lack of a parking garage, management decided to close the Trump World's Fair in October 1999, and the facility is currently in the process of being dismantled. In December 1999, in connection with the closure of Trump World's Fair, Plaza Associates terminated the easement in accordance with its terms. See "Business; Trump Plaza; Atlantic City Marketing Strategy."
Parking Parcels. Plaza Associates owns a parcel of land (the "Plaza Garage Parcel") located across the street from the Plaza Casino Parcel and along Pacific Avenue in a portion of the block bound by Pacific Avenue, Mississippi Avenue, Atlantic Avenue and Missouri Avenue. Plaza Associates has constructed the Trump Plaza Transportation Facility on the Plaza Garage Parcel. An enclosed pedestrian walkway from the parking garage provide access to the Trump Plaza at the casino level. Parking at the parking garage is available to Trump Plaza's guests, as well as to the general public.
Plaza Associates leases, pursuant to the PHMC Lease, a parcel of land located on the northwest corner of the intersection of Mississippi and Pacific Avenues consisting of approximately 11,800 square feet (the "Additional Parcel") and owns another parcel on Mississippi Avenue adjacent to the Additional Parcel consisting of approximately 5,750 square feet.
Plaza Associates also owns five parcels of land, aggregating approximately 43,300 square feet, and subleases one parcel consisting of approximately 3,125 square feet. All of such parcels are contiguous and are located along Atlantic Avenue, in the same block as the Plaza Garage Parcel. They are used for signage and surface parking and are not encumbered by any mortgage liens other than that of the Plaza Mortgages.
Warehouse Parcel. Plaza Associates owns a warehouse and office facility located in Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey, containing approximately 64,000 square feet of space (the "Egg Harbor Parcel"). The Egg Harbor Parcel is encumbered by a first mortgage having an outstanding principal balance, as of December 31, 2000, of approximately $1.2 million and is encumbered by the Plaza Mortgages. This lien is senior to the liens of the Plaza Mortgages. This facility is currently being utilized by Taj Associates.
Plaza Associates has financed or leased and from time to time will finance or lease its acquisition of furniture, fixtures and equipment. The lien in favor of any such lender or lessor may be superior to the liens of the Plaza Mortgages.
Taj Mahal
Taj Associates currently owns the parcels of land which are used in connection with the operation of the Taj Mahal. Each of these parcels is encumbered by the mortgages securing the TAC I Notes, TAC II Notes and TAC III Notes.
The Casino Parcel. The land comprising the Taj Mahal site consists of approximately 30.0 acres, bounded by the Boardwalk to the south, vacated former States Avenue to the east, Pennsylvania Avenue to the west and Pacific Avenue to the north. The Taj Mahal was opened to the public on April 2, 1990.
Taj Entertainment Complex. In connection with the Taj Acquisition, Taj Associates purchased the Taj Entertainment Complex from Realty Corp. The Taj Entertainment Complex is a 20,000-square-foot multipurpose entertainment complex known as the Xanadu Theater with seating capacity for approximately 1,200 people, which can be used as a theater, concert hall, boxing arena or exhibition hall.
Steel Pier. In connection with the Taj Acquisition, Taj Associates purchased the approximately 3.6 acre pier and related property located across the Boardwalk from the Taj Mahal (the "Steel Pier") from Realty Corp. Taj Associates initially proposed a concept to improve the Steel Pier, the estimated cost of which improvements was $30.0 million. Such concept was approved by the New Jersey Department of Environment Protection ("NJDEP"), the agency which administers the Coastal Area Facilities Review Act ("CAFRA"). A condition imposed on Taj Associates' CAFRA permit initially required that Taj Associates begin
construction of certain improvements on the Steel Pier by October 1992, which improvements were to be completed within 18 months of commencement. In March 1993, Taj Associates obtained a modification of its CAFRA permit providing for the extensions of the required commencement and completion dates of the improvements to the Steel Pier for one year based upon an interim use of the Steel Pier for an amusement park. Taj Associates received additional one-year extensions of the required commencement and completion dates of the improvements of the Steel Pier based upon the same interim use of the Steel Pier as an amusement park pursuant to a sublease ("Pier Sublease") with an amusement park operator. The Pier Sublease terminates on December 31, 2003, unless extended.
Office and Warehouse Space. Taj Associates owns an office building located on South Pennsylvania Avenue adjacent to the Taj Mahal. In addition, Taj Associates, in April 1991, purchased for approximately $1.7 million certain facilities of Castle Associates which are presently leased to commercial tenants and used for office space and vehicle maintenance facilities. In connection with the Taj Acquisition, Taj Associates purchased from Realty Corp. a warehouse complex of approximately 34,500 square feet. This warehouse complex was sold to the CRDA in November 1998 as part of the location of a new neighborhood housing development completed as part of the redevelopment of the road corridors and adjoining neighborhoods to the Taj Mahal.
In September 1992, Taj Associates entered into the Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease with Trump Equitable Company pursuant to which Taj Associates leased office space in the Trump Tower for marketing purposes. The monthly payments under the Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease were $1,000, and the premises were leased at such rent for four months in 1992, the full 12 months in each of 1993 and 1994 and eight months in 1995. On September 1, 1995, the Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease was renewed for an additional term of five years with an option for Taj Associates to terminate the Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease on September 1st of each year, upon six months' prior written notice and payment of the six months' rent. Under the renewed Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease, the monthly payments were $2,285. In March 2000, THCR terminated the THCR Trump Tower Lease Agreement, assumed the Taj Mahal Trump Tower Lease and moved its offices into the office space previously occupied by Taj Mahal. See "Executive Compensation; Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation."
Parking. The Taj Mahal provides parking spaces for approximately 6,950 cars, of which 6,725 parking spaces are located indoors and 225 are parking spaces located on land purchased from Realty Corp. in connection with the Taj Acquisition.
Themed Restaurants and Retail Shopping. In February 1996, Hard Rock Cafe International (N.J.), Inc. ("Hard Rock") entered into a 15-year lease agreement (the "Hard Rock Cafe Lease") with Taj Associates pursuant to which Hard Rock leases an approximately 11,500 square-foot space at the Taj Mahal for a Hard Rock Cafe. The Hard Rock Cafe opened in November 1996. The basic rent under the Hard Rock Cafe Lease is $750,000 per year, payable in equal monthly installments, for the first 10 years of the lease term, and will be $825,000 per year, payable in equal monthly installments, for the remaining five years of the lease term. In addition, Hard Rock will pay percentage rent in an amount equal to 10.0% of Hard Rock's annual gross sales in excess of $10.0 million. Hard Rock has the right to terminate the Hard Rock Cafe Lease on the tenth anniversary thereof, and also has the option to extend the term of the Hard Rock Cafe Lease for an additional five-year period at an annual basic rent of $907,500 during such renewal term.
In January 1996, All Star Cafe, Inc. ("All Star") entered into a twenty-year lease (the "All Star Cafe Lease") with Taj Associates for the lease of space at the Taj Mahal to operate an All Star Cafe. The basic rent under the All Star Cafe Lease was $1.0 million per year, payable in equal monthly installments. In addition, All Star was to pay percentage rent to Taj Associates in an amount equal to the difference, if any, between (i) 8.0% of All Star's gross sales made during each calendar month during the first lease year, 9.0% of All Star's gross sales made during each calendar month during the second lease year and 10.0% of All Star's gross sales made during each calendar month during the third through the twentieth lease years, and (ii) one-twelfth of the annual basic rent. The All Star Cafe opened in March 1997. In September 1999, an agreement was reached between Taj Associates, All Star and Planet Hollywood International, Inc. to terminate the All Star Cafe Lease, effective September 24, 1999. Upon termination of the All Star Cafe Lease, all improvements, alterations and All Star's personal property, with the exception of specialty trade fixtures, became the property of Taj Associates. Taj Associates recorded the estimated $17.2 million fair market value of these assets in other revenue based on an independent appraisal. Taj Associates has since remodeled the facility into an entertainment complex called the "Casbah" consisting of a Boardwalk level bar, a seasonal outdoor dining area with live bands and a centerpiece high-energy nightclub. The Casbah complex opened in June 2000.
In June 1997, Stage Deli of Atlantic City, Inc. ("Stage Deli") entered into a ten-year, five-month lease, commencing on July 7, 1997 (the "Stage Deli Lease"), with Taj Associates for the lease of space at the Taj Mahal for a Stage Deli of New York Restaurant. Stage Deli has an option to renew the Stage Deli Lease for an additional five-year term. Commencing September 1, 1998, the Stage Deli Lease was amended to eliminate the basic rent provisions and provide for monthly percentage rents of 8.0% or 10.0% of gross monthly sales based on actual average sales volumes as defined in the Stage Deli Lease.
In February 1997, Warner Brothers entered into a ten-year lease (the "Time Warner Taj Lease") with Taj Associates for the lease of space at the Taj Mahal for a Warner Brothers Studio Store (the "Taj Warner Brothers Store"). Time Warner had an option to renew the Time Warner Taj Lease for two additional five-year terms. Pursuant to the Time Warner Taj Lease, Warner Brothers was obligated to pay to Taj Mahal monthly rent in an amount equal to (i) 7.5% of gross annual sales up to and including $5.0 million and (ii) 10.0% sales of gross annual sales in excess of $5.0 million. No minimum or "base" rent was payable under the Time Warner Taj Lease. Also, pursuant to the Time Warner Taj Lease, Warner Brothers had the right to terminate the Time Warner Taj Lease if (i) gross annual sales were less than $2.5 million for the second year of the lease or less than $2.5 million, as adjusted by CPI, for the third through ninth years of the lease; and (ii) the Taj Mahal ceased to operate as a first class hotel. The Taj Warner Brothers Store opened in May 1997. Following the recent merger of Time Warner with AOL in January 2001, AOL Time Warner has announced its intention of closing or selling its Warner Brothers Studio Store operations, including the Taj Warner Brothers Store. Management currently intends to locate a new retail tenant for this space.
In October 1999, Taj Mahal recently completed its expansion of the retail shopping area along the length of its parking garage promenade walkway which immediately adjoins the Taj Mahal's main retail shopping area. The first tenant, Starbucks, operated by Host International, Inc., opened in September 1996. Sbarro's, an Italian eatery, operated by Sbarro America Properties, Inc., opened in October 1998. Boardwalk Treats, Beka's Pastries and a Harley Davidson retail merchandise outlet opened at various times during 1999. A Sunglass Hut, operated by Sunglass Hut International, opened in August 1998 in a separate location also adjoining the Taj Mahal's main retail shopping area. The Taj Mahal's retail shopping outlets also include an upscale collection of women's and men's clothing and shoe shops, jewelry stores and a variety of gift and specialty shops.
Trump Marina
The Casino Parcel. Trump Marina is located in the Marina District on an approximately 14.7 acre triangular-shaped parcel of land, which is owned by Castle Associates in fee, located at the intersection of Huron Avenue and Brigantine Boulevard directly across from the marina, approximately two miles from the Boardwalk and one-quarter mile from the H-Tract.
Trump Marina has approximately 82,100 square-feet of gaming space which accommodates 76 table games, approximately 2,500 slot machines and a simulcast racetrack facility. In addition to the casino, Trump Marina consists of a 27-story hotel with 728 guest rooms, including 153 suites, of which 97 are "Crystal Tower" luxury suites. The facility also offers seven restaurants, two clubs for the exclusive use of select patrons, a 540-seat cabaret theater, two cocktail lounges, 58,000 square-feet of convention, ballroom and meeting space, a swimming pool, tennis courts and a sports and health club facility. Trump Marina has been designed so that it can be enlarged in phases into a facility containing up to 2,000 rooms and a 1,600-seat cabaret theater. Trump Marina also has a nine-story garage providing on-site parking for approximately 3,000 vehicles and a roof-top helipad, making Trump Marina the only Atlantic City casino with access by land, sea and air.
In the second quarter of 2000, Trump Marina completed its slot room expansion. This expansion project increased Trump Marina's gaming space by approximately 6,200 square feet (an 8.2% increase) and added approximately 250 slot machines. Between 1994 and 2000, management replaced substantially all of Trump Marina's slot machines with newer, more popular models and upgraded its computerized slot tracking and slot marketing system. Also, management has increased the number of slot machines offering patrons stools on which to sit while gaming, which has proven to be effective in increasing patrons' comfort and gaming entertainment experience.
The Marina. Pursuant to an agreement with the New Jersey Division of Parks and Forestry (the "Marina Agreement"), Castle Associates in 1987 began operating and renovating the marina at Trump Marina, including docks containing approximately 645 slips. An elevated pedestrian walkway connecting Trump Marina to a two-story building at the marina was completed in 1989. Castle Associates constructed the two-story building, which contains a 240-seat restaurant and offices as well as a snack bar and a large nautical theme retail store. Pursuant to the Marina Agreement and a certain lease between the state of New Jersey, as landlord, and Castle Associates, as tenant, dated as of September 1, 1990 (the "Marina Lease"), Castle Associates commenced leasing the marina and the improvements thereon for an initial term of 25 years. The Marina Lease is a net lease pursuant to which Castle Associates, in addition to the payment of annual rent equal to the greater of (i) a certain percentage of gross revenues of
Castle Associates from operation of the marina during the lease year and (ii) an initial minimum base rent of $300,000 annually (increasing every five years to $500,000 in 2010), is responsible for all costs and expenses related to the premises, including but not limited to, all maintenance and repair costs, insurance premiums, real estate taxes, assessments and utility charges. Any improvements made to the marina (which is owned by the state of New Jersey), excluding the elevated pedestrian walkway, automatically becomes the property of the state of New Jersey upon their completion.
The Parking Parcel. Castle Associates also owns an employee parking lot located on Route 30, approximately two miles from Trump Marina, which can accommodate approximately 1,000 cars.
Indiana Riverboat
See "Business; Indiana Riverboat."
ITEM 3.