ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
THCR
THCR has entered into a ten year lease with The Trump-Equitable Fifth Avenue Company, a corporation wholly owned by Trump (the "Trump-Equitable Company"), dated as of July 1, 1995, for the lease of office space in The Trump Tower in New York City, which THCR may use for its general, executive and administrative offices. The fixed rent is $115,500 per year, paid in equal monthly installments, for the period from July 1, 1995 to June 30, 2000 and will be $129,250 per year, paid in equal monthly installments, for the period from July 1, 2000 to June 30, 2005. In addition, THCR will pay as additional rent, among other things, a portion of the property taxes due each year. THCR has the option to terminate this lease upon ninety days' written notice and payment of $32,312.50.
TRUMP PLAZA
Plaza Associates owns and leases several parcels of land in and around Atlantic City, New Jersey, each of which is used in connection with the operation of Trump Plaza and each of which is subject to the liens of the mortgages associated with the TAC I Notes, the TAC II Notes and the TAC III Notes (collectively, the "Plaza Mortgages") and certain other liens.
Plaza Casino Parcel. Trump Plaza's main tower is located on The Boardwalk in Atlantic City, New Jersey, next to the Atlantic City Convention Center. It occupies the entire city block (approximately 2.38 acres) bounded by The Boardwalk, Mississippi Avenue, Pacific Avenue and Columbia Place (the "Plaza Casino Parcel").
The Plaza Casino Parcel consists of four tracts of land, three of which are currently owned by Plaza Associates and one of which is leased by Plaza Hotel Management Company ("PHMC") to Plaza Associates pursuant to a non-renewable ground lease, which expires on December 31, 2078 (the "PHMC Lease"). The land which is subject to the PHMC Lease is referred to as the "Plaza Leasehold Tract." Seashore Four Associates ("Seashore Four") and Trump Seashore Associates ("Trump Seashore") had leased to Plaza Associates two of the tracts which are now owned by Plaza Associates. Trump Seashore and Seashore Four are 100% beneficially owned by Trump and are, therefore, affiliates of THCR. Plaza Associates purchased the tract from Seashore Four in January 1997 and the tract from Trump Seashore in September 1996 for $10.1 million and $14.5 million, respectively.
The PHMC Lease is a "net lease" pursuant to which Plaza Associates, in addition to the payment of fixed rent, is responsible for all costs and expenses with respect to the use, operation and ownership of the Plaza Leasehold Tract and the improvements now, or which may in the future be, located thereon, including, but not limited to, all maintenance and repair costs, insurance premiums, real estate taxes, assessments and utility charges. The improvements located on the Plaza Leasehold Tract are owned by Plaza Associates during the term of the PHMC Lease, and upon the expiration of the term of the PHMC Lease (for any reason), ownership of such improvements will vest in PHMC. The PHMC Lease also contains an option pursuant to which Plaza Associates may purchase the Plaza Leasehold Tract at certain times during the term of such PHMC Lease under certain circumstances.
Trump Plaza East. In connection with the Taj Acquisition, Plaza Associates exercised its option to purchase certain of the fee and leasehold interests comprising Trump Plaza East for a purchase price of $28.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 1996, Plaza Associates incurred approximately $1.1 million in expenses associated with its lease of Trump Plaza East. Plaza Associates currently leases a portion of the land which comprises Trump Plaza East from an unrelated third party.
In September 1993, Trump (as predecessor in interest to Plaza Associates under the lease for Trump Plaza East) entered into a sublease with Time Warner (the "Time Warner Sublease") pursuant to which Time Warner subleased the entire first floor of retail space for a new Warner Brothers Studio Store which opened in July 1994. Time Warner renovated the premises in connection with the opening of the Warner Brothers Studio Store. The lease term is for ten years and gives Time Warner the option to renew for two additional 5-year terms. Time Warner is required to pay percentage rent monthly in an amount equal to (i) 7.5% of gross annual sales up to $15.0 million and (ii) 10% of gross annual sales in excess of $15 million. The terms of the Time Warner Sublease give Time Warner the right to terminate the sublease if (i) gross annual sales are less than $5.0 million for year two or less than $5.0 million as adjusted by CPI for years three through nine; and (ii) Trump Plaza ceases to operate as a first class hotel.
Trump World's Fair. Pursuant to the option to purchase Trump World's Fair, on June 12, 1995, using proceeds from the June 1995 Offerings, Plaza Associates acquired title to Trump World's Fair. Further, pursuant to an easement agreement with the NJSEA, Plaza Associates has an exclusive easement over, in and through the portions of the original Atlantic City Convention Center used as the pedestrian walkway connecting Trump Plaza's main tower and Trump World's Fair. The easement is for a 25-year term and may be renewed at the option of Plaza Associates for one additional 25-year period. In consideration of the granting of the easement, Plaza Associates must pay to NJSEA the sum of $2.0 million annually, such annual payment to be adjusted every five years to reflect changes in the consumer price index. Plaza Associates has the right to terminate the easement agreement at any time upon six months' notice to NJSEA in consideration of a termination payment of $1,000,000. See "Business--Gaming and Other Laws and Regulations--New Jersey Gaming Regulations--Approved Hotel Facilities."
Parking Parcels. Plaza Associates owns a parcel of land (the "Plaza Garage Parcel") located across the street from the Plaza Casino Parcel and along Pacific Avenue in a portion of the block bound by Pacific Avenue,
Mississippi Avenue, Atlantic Avenue and Missouri Avenue. Plaza Associates has constructed the Transportation Facility on the Plaza Garage Parcel. An enclosed pedestrian walkway from the parking garage accesses Trump Plaza at the casino level. Parking at the parking garage is available to Trump Plaza's guests, as well as to the general public.
Plaza Associates leases, pursuant to the PHMC Lease, a parcel of land located on the northwest corner of the intersection of Mississippi and Pacific Avenues consisting of approximately 11,800 square feet ("Additional Parcel 1") and owns another parcel on Mississippi Avenue adjacent to Additional Parcel 1 consisting of approximately 5,750 square feet.
Plaza Associates also owns five parcels of land, aggregating approximately 43,300 square feet, and subleases one parcel consisting of approximately 3,125 square feet. All of such parcels are contiguous and are located along Atlantic Avenue, in the same block as the Plaza Garage Parcel. They are used for signage and surface parking and are not encumbered by any mortgage liens other than that of the Plaza Mortgages.
Warehouse Parcel. Plaza Associates owns a warehouse and office facility located in Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey, containing approximately 64,000 square feet of space (the "Egg Harbor Parcel"). The Egg Harbor Parcel is encumbered by a first mortgage having an outstanding principal balance, as of December 31, 1998, of approximately $1.3 million and is encumbered by the Plaza Mortgages. This facility is currently being utilized by TCS.
Superior Mortgages. The liens securing the indebtedness on the Plaza Garage Parcel, the Egg Harbor Parcel and liens securing indebtedness on certain parking facilities are each senior to the liens of the Plaza Mortgages. The principal amount currently secured by such mortgages is, in the aggregate, approximately $3.2 million.
Plaza Associates has financed or leased and from time to time will finance or lease its acquisition of furniture, fixtures and equipment. The lien in favor of any such lender or lessor may be superior to the liens of the Plaza Mortgages.
TAJ MAHAL
Taj Associates currently owns the parcels of land which are used in connection with the operation of the Taj Mahal. Each of these parcels is encumbered by the mortgages securing the TAC I Notes, the TAC II Notes and the TAC III Notes.
The Casino Parcel. The land comprising the Taj Mahal site consists of approximately 30 acres, bounded by The Boardwalk to the south, vacated former States Avenue to the east, Pennsylvania Avenue to the west and Pacific Avenue to the north. The Taj Mahal was opened to the public on April 2, 1990.
Taj Entertainment Complex. In connection with the Taj Acquisition, Taj Associates purchased the Taj Entertainment Complex from Realty Corp. The Taj Entertainment Complex is a 20,000-square-foot multipurpose entertainment complex known as the Xanadu Theater with seating capacity for approximately 1,200 people, which can be used as a theater, concert hall, boxing arena or exhibition hall.
Steel Pier. In connection with the Taj Acquisition, Taj Associates purchased the approximately 3.6 acre pier and related property located across The Boardwalk from the Taj Mahal (the "Steel Pier") from Realty Corp. Taj Associates initially proposed a concept to improve the Steel Pier, the estimated cost of which improvements was $30 million. Such concept was approved by the New Jersey Department of Environment Protection ("NJDEP"), the agency which administers the Coastal Area Facilities Review Act ("CAFRA"). A condition imposed on Taj Associates' CAFRA permit initially required that Taj Associates begin construction of certain improvements on the Steel Pier by October 1992, which improvements were to be completed within 18 months of commencement. In March 1993, Taj Associates obtained a modification of its CAFRA permit providing for the extensions of the required commencement and completion dates of the improvements to the Steel Pier for one year
based upon an interim use of the Steel Pier for an amusement park. Taj Associates received additional one-year extensions of the required commencement and completion dates of the improvements of the Steel Pier based upon the same interim use of the Steel Pier as an amusement park pursuant to a sublease ("Pier Sublease") with an amusement park operator. The Pier Sublease terminates on December 31, 1999 unless extended.
Office and Warehouse Space. Taj Associates owns an office building located on South Pennsylvania Avenue adjacent to the Taj Mahal. In addition, Taj Associates, in April 1991, purchased for approximately $1.7 million certain facilities of Castle Associates which are presently leased to commercial tenants and used for office space and vehicle maintenance facilities. In connection with the Taj Acquisition, Taj Associates purchased from Realty Corp. a warehouse complex of approximately 34,500 square feet. This warehouse complex is expected to be sold to the CRDA as part of the location of a new neighborhood housing development to be completed as part of the redevelopment of the road corridors and adjoining neighborhoods to the Taj Mahal.
Taj Associates has entered into a lease with Trump-Equitable Company for the lease of office space in Trump Tower in New York City, which Taj Associates uses as a marketing office. The monthly payments under the lease had been $1,000, and the premises were leased at such rent for four months in 1992, the full twelve months in 1993 and 1994 and eight months in 1995. On September 1, 1995, the lease was renewed for a term of five years with an option for Taj Associates to cancel the lease on September 1 of each year, upon six months' notice and payment of six months' rent. Under the renewed lease, the monthly payments are $2,285.
Parking. The Taj Mahal provides parking for approximately 6,950 cars of which 6,725 spaces are located in indoor parking garages and 225 surface spaces are located on land purchased from Realty Corp. in connection with the Taj Acquisition. In addition, Taj Associates entered into a lease agreement with South Jersey Transportation Authority for employee parking facilities.
Themed Restaurants and Retail Shopping. Hard Rock Cafe International (N.J.), Inc. ("Hard Rock") has entered into a fifteen-year lease (the "Hard Rock Cafe Lease") with Taj Associates for the lease of space at the Taj Mahal for a Hard Rock Cafe. The basic rent under the Hard Rock Cafe Lease is $750,000 per year, paid in equal monthly installments, for the first 10 years of the lease term, and will be $825,000 per year, paid in equal monthly installments, for the remaining 5 years of the lease term. In addition, Hard Rock will pay percentage rent in an amount equal to 10% of Hard Rock's annual gross sales in excess of $10,000,000. Hard Rock has the right to terminate the Hard Rock Cafe Lease on the tenth anniversary thereof and also has the option to extend the term of the lease for an additional five-year period at an annual basic rent of $907,500 during such renewal term. The Hard Rock Cafe opened in November 1996.
All Star Cafe, Inc. ("All Star") has entered into a twenty-year lease (the "All Star Cafe Lease") with Taj Associates for the lease of space at the Taj Mahal for an All Star Cafe. The basic rent under the All Star Cafe Lease is $1.0 million per year, paid in equal monthly installments. In addition, All Star will pay percentage rent in an amount equal to the difference, if any, between (i) 8% of All Star's gross sales made during each calendar month during the first lease year, 9% of All Star's gross sales made during each calendar month during the second lease year and 10% of All Star's gross sales made during each calendar month during the third through the twentieth lease years, and (ii) one-twelfth of the annual basic rent. The All Star Cafe opened in March 1997.
Stage Deli of Atlantic City, Inc. ("Stage Deli") has entered into a ten-year and five-month lease commencing July 7, 1997 (the "Stage Deli Lease") with Taj Associates for the lease of space at the Taj Mahal for a Stage Deli of New York restaurant. Stage Deli has an option to renew the Stage Deli Lease for an additional five-year term. Commencing September 1, 1998 the Stage Deli Lease was amended to eliminate the basic rent provisions and provide for monthly percentage rents of 8% or 10% of gross monthly sales based on actual average sales volumes as defined in the Stage Deli Lease.
Time Warner has entered into a ten-year lease (the "Time Warner Taj Lease") with Taj Associates for the lease of space at the Taj Mahal for a Warner Brothers Studio Store. Time Warner has an option to renew the Time Warner Taj Lease for two additional five-year terms. Time Warner pays percentage rent monthly in an amount equal to (i) 7.5% of gross annual sales up to $5.0 million and (ii) 10% sales of gross annual sales in excess of $5.0
million. No minimum or "base" rent is payable under the Time Warner Taj Lease. The terms of the lease give Time Warner the right to terminate the lease if (i) gross annual sales are less than $2.5 million for the second year of the lease or less than $2.5 million as adjusted by CPI for the third through ninth years of the lease; and (ii) the Taj Mahal ceases to operate as a first class hotel. The Warner Brothers Studio Store opened in May 1997.
The Taj Mahal is currently in the process of expanding the retail shopping experience along the length of its parking garage promenade walkway which immediately adjoins the Taj Mahal's main retail shopping area. The first tenant, Starbucks, operated by Host International, Inc., opened in September 1996. Sbarro's, an Italian eatery, operated by Sbarro America Properties, Inc., opened in October 1998. Boardwalk Treats, Beka's Pastries and a Harley Davidson retail merchandise outlet are expected to open in the early spring of 1999. A Sunglass Hut, operated by Sunglass Hut International, opened in August 1998 in another location also adjoining the Taj Mahal's main retail shopping area.
TRUMP MARINA
The Casino Parcel. Trump Marina is located in the Marina District on an approximately 14.7 acre triangular-shaped parcel of land, which is owned by Castle Associates in fee, located at the intersection of Huron Avenue and Brigantine Boulevard directly across from the marina, approximately two miles from The Boardwalk.
Trump Marina has approximately 75,900 square-feet of gaming space which accommodates 92 table games, 2,167 slot machines and race simulcasting facilities. In addition to the casino, Trump Marina consists of a 27-story hotel with 728 guest rooms, including 153 suites, of which 97 are "Crystal Tower" luxury suites. Renovation of 210, 90 and 64 of the guest rooms was completed in 1996, 1997 and 1998, respectively. The facility also offers eight restaurants, a 540-seat cabaret theater, two cocktail lounges, 58,000 square-feet of convention, ballroom and meeting space, a swimming pool, tennis courts and a sports and health club facility. Trump Marina has been designed so that it can be enlarged in phases into a facility containing 2,000 rooms and a 1,600-seat cabaret theater. Trump Marina also has a nine-story garage providing on-site parking for approximately 3,000 vehicles and a helipad which is located atop the parking garage, making Trump Marina the only Atlantic City casino with access by land, sea and air.
Between 1994 and 1998, management replaced substantially all of its slot machines with newer, more popular models and upgraded its computerized slot tracking and slot marketing system. During 1997, the property was rethemed with a nautical emphasis and renamed the Trump Marina Hotel Casino. In 1994, management completed a 3,000 square- foot expansion to its casino which enabled Trump Marina to accommodate the addition of simulcast race track wagering and expended in excess of $2 million on renovations to its hotel facility. The casino expansion also increased casino access and casino visibility for hotel patrons. In 1993, Trump Marina completed the construction of a Las Vegas-style marquee and reader board, the largest of its kind on the East Coast.
The Marina. Pursuant to an agreement with the New Jersey Division of Parks and Forestry (the "Marina Agreement"), Castle Associates in 1987 began operating and renovating the marina at Trump Marina, including docks containing approximately 645 slips. An elevated pedestrian walkway connecting Trump Marina to a two-story building at the marina was completed in 1989. Castle Associates constructed the two- story building, which contains a 240-seat restaurant and offices as well as a snack bar and a large nautical theme retail store. Pursuant to the Marina Agreement and a certain lease between the State of New Jersey, as landlord, and Castle Associates, as tenant, dated as of September 1, 1990 (the "Marina Lease"), Castle Associates commenced leasing the marina and the improvements thereon for an initial term of twenty-five years. The lease is a net lease pursuant to which Castle Associates, in addition to the payment of annual rent equal to the greater of (i) a certain percentage of gross revenues of Castle Associates from operation of the marina during the lease year and (ii) minimum base rent of $300,000 annually (increasing every five years to $500,000 in 2011), is responsible for all costs and expenses related to the premises, including but not limited to, all maintenance and repair costs, insurance premiums, real estate taxes, assessments and utility charges. Any improvements made to the marina (which is owned by the State of New Jersey), excluding the elevated pedestrian walkway, automatically become the property of the State of New Jersey upon their completion.
The Parking Parcel. Castle Associates also owns an employee parking lot located on Route 30, approximately two miles from Trump Marina, which can accommodate approximately 1,000 cars.
INDIANA RIVERBOAT
See "Business--Indiana Riverboat."
ITEM 3.