ITEM 2. PROPERTIES -- ELECTRIC. BGE also owns two-thirds of the outstanding capital stock, including one-half of the voting securities, of Safe Harbor Water Power Corporation (Safe Harbor), a hydroelectric producer on the Susquehanna River at Safe Harbor, Pennsylvania. (SEE ITEM 2. PROPERTIES -- ELECTRIC.) BGE furnishes electric and gas retail services in the City of Baltimore and in all or part of ten counties in Central Maryland. The electric service territory includes an area of approximately 2,300 square miles with an estimated population of 2,650,000. The gas service territory includes an area of more than 600 square miles with an estimated population of 2,000,000. There are no municipal or cooperative bulk power markets within BGE's service territory. As discussed throughout this report, the two units at BGE's Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant are its principal generating facilities and have the lowest fuel cost in BGE's system. An extended shutdown of either of these Units could have a substantial adverse effect on the Company's business and financial condition. (SEE NUCLEAR OPERATIONS AND NOTE 12 TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for information regarding prior outages at the Plant.) Also, the utility industry is facing potentially substantial regulatory change designed to foster competition in the provision of gas and electric services. It is not possible to predict the ultimate effect competition will have on BGE's earnings in future years. These matters are discussed under ELECTRIC REGULATORY MATTERS AND COMPETITION on page 3 and GAS REGULATORY MATTERS AND COMPETITION on page 9. Diversified businesses conducted by the Constellation Companies, HP&S, MES, EP&S, and BNG, Inc. are discussed under DIVERSIFIED BUSINESSES on page 13 and ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A). The percentages of Operating Revenues and Operating Income attributable to electric, gas, and diversified operations are set forth below:
Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation. *Net of income taxes. BGE currently derives approximately 22% of electric revenues and 42% of gas revenues from customers located in the City of Baltimore and 78% and 58%, respectively, from outside the City of Baltimore. No single customer's electric revenues exceed 4% of total electric revenues and no single customer's gas revenues exceed 4% of total gas revenues. The disparity between the percentage of gas operating revenues in relation to the percentage of gas operating income as compared to the same percentages for electric operations is due to BGE's level of investment and its
fuel costs in each of these segments. BGE's operating revenue amounts represent recovery of all fuel and operating expenses plus a return on its investment in the business. BGE's net investment for ratemaking purposes in the electric business is $4.8 billion while the comparable investment in its gas business is approximately $540 million. Thus, operating revenues include a much greater return component for electric operations than gas operations. Also, as can be seen by referring to ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA, CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME on page 33, gas purchased for resale as a percentage of gas revenues (49%) is greater than electric fuel and purchased energy as a percentage of electric revenues (26%). It should be noted that both purchased gas costs and electric fuel costs are passed through to the customer with no mark-up for profit. The combined effects of these factors yield the observed relationship between operating revenues and income for electric and gas operations. BGE and Potomac Electric Power Company (PEPCO) have agreed to merge. PEPCO is a neighboring electric utility serving Washington, D.C. and major portions of Montgomery and Prince George's Counties in Maryland. It is currently anticipated that the merger will be completed in March 1997. The reasons for the merger and other information about the merger are discussed in more detail under ELECTRIC REGULATORY MATTERS AND COMPETITION on pages 3 and 4 and in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 33-64799) which is included as an exhibit to this report by incorporation by reference. In response to the competitive forces and regulatory changes in the utility industry, as discussed in ELECTRIC REGULATORY MATTERS AND COMPETITION on pages 3 and 4 and GAS REGULATORY MATTERS AND COMPETITION on page 9, BGE (and after the merger the new company to be named Constellation Energy Corporation) from time to time will consider various strategies designed to enhance its competitive position and to increase its ability to adapt to and anticipate regulatory changes in its utility business. These strategies may include internal restructurings involving the complete or partial separation of its generation, transmission and distribution businesses, acquisitions of related or unrelated businesses, business combinations, and additions to or dispositions of portions of its franchised service territories. BGE and its subsidiaries may from time to time be engaged in preliminary discussions, either internally or with third parties, regarding one or more of these potential strategies. CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS The Company's actual capital requirements for 1993 through 1995, along with estimated amounts for 1996 through 1998, are set forth below. Certain prior-year amounts have been restated to conform with the current year's presentation.
(a) Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFC) is accrued for all construction projects with a construction period of more than one month. (SEE NOTE 1 TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for a discussion of AFC.) (b) See NOTE 5 TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for a discussion of deferred nuclear expenditures and deferred energy conservation expenditures.
BGE's actual capital requirements may vary from the estimates set forth above because of a number of factors such as inflation, economic conditions, regulation, legislation, load growth, environmental protection standards, and the cost and availability of capital. The Constellation Companies' capital requirements for diversified businesses may vary from the estimates set forth above due to a number of factors including market and economic conditions and are discussed in detail under MD&A -- DIVERSIFIED BUSINESSES CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS on page 30. BGE's estimated construction, nuclear fuel, and deferred energy conservation expenditures are expected to amount to approximately $1.6 billion, $220 million, and $145 million, respectively, for the five-year period 1996-2000. Electric construction expenditures reflect the installation of a 5,000-kilowatt diesel generator at the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant which is scheduled to be placed in service in 1996 and improvements in BGE's existing generating plants and its transmission and distribution facilities. Future electric construction expenditures do not include additional generating units. During the period January 1, 1991 through December 31, 1995, BGE expended $2,156 million for gross additions to utility plant or approximately 27% of its total utility plant (exclusive of nuclear fuel) at December 31, 1995. During the same period, a total of $376 million of utility plant was retired. Nuclear fuel expenditures include uranium purchases and processing charges. BGE presently estimates that approximately $930 million will be required for retirements and redemptions of long-term debt (including sinking fund payments) and BGE preference stock during the five-year period 1996-2000. For further information with respect to capital requirements and for a discussion of internal generation of cash, see ITEM 7. MD&A -- LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES. ELECTRIC BUSINESS ELECTRIC REGULATORY MATTERS AND COMPETITION In recent years BGE focused strategic attention to developments in federal regulatory policy which are designed to increase competition in the wholesale market for bulk power and expand competition in the market for generation. In 1993, the BGE Board of Directors formed the Long Range Strategy Committee to provide an oversight role in the development of BGE's long range strategic goals and to consider strategic initiatives which Management wished to present to the BGE Board. Many of these developments were prompted by the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (the 1992 Act), which granted the FERC the authority to order electric utilities to provide transmission service to other utilities and to other buyers and sellers of electricity in the wholesale market. The 1992 Act also created a new class of power producers, exempt wholesale generators, which are exempt from regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended (the 1935 Act). This exemption has increased the number of entrants into the wholesale electric generation market and so increased competition in the wholesale segment of the electric utility industry. Pursuant to its authority under the 1992 Act, the FERC issued a number of orders in specific cases commencing in December 1993 directing utilities to provide transmission services. The FERC's actions have increased the availability of transmission services, thus creating significant competition in the wholesale power market. Other developments resulted from policies at the SEC, which has liberalized its interpretation and administration of the 1935 Act in ways that have made mergers between utility companies less burdensome, thereby facilitating the creation of larger industry competitors. Moreover, state regulatory bodies in certain states had initiated proceedings to review the basic structure of the industry. Against this background, BGE and PEPCO agreed to merge. Each company independently reached the conclusion that key factors contributing to success in this more competitive environment will be maintaining low-cost production and achieving a size that will enable it to continue to provide high quality customer service, enhancing its competitive position and attaining a greater level of financial strength. The accelerating pace of electric utility mergers attests to the appropriateness of business combinations between electric utility companies to address such needs. During 1993, one electric utility company merger was announced. In 1994, the number was increased to two, and during 1995, including those following the announcement of the Merger on September 25, 1995, six such transactions were announced. At the date of this report, there had been one electric utility company merger announced in 1996.
BGE, PEPCO, and Constellation Energy Corporation (formerly named R.H. Acquisition Corp.) entered into the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 22, 1995 (the Merger Agreement). The Merger Agreement provides that upon the receipt of all necessary approvals (including shareholder approval and a number of regulatory approvals) BGE and PEPCO will be merged into Constellation Energy Corporation (the Merger). Constellation Energy Corporation is a shell corporation formed for the sole purpose of accomplishing the Merger. It is currently anticipated that all such approvals will be obtained by March 1997. Preliminary estimates by the managements of PEPCO and BGE indicate that the synergies resulting from the combination of their utility operations could generate net cost savings of up to $1.3 billion over a period of 10 years following the Merger. These estimates indicate that about two-thirds of the savings will come from reduced labor costs, with the remaining savings split between nonfuel purchasing and corporate and administrative programs. These savings are expected to be allocated among shareholders and customers. This allocation will depend upon the results of regulatory proceedings in the various jurisdictions in which BGE and PEPCO operate their utility businesses. The reasons for the Merger, the terms and conditions contained in the Merger Agreement, and other matters concerning the Merger, PEPCO, and Constellation Energy Corporation are discussed in more detail in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 33-64799) which is included as an exhibit to this Report on Form 10-K by incorporation by reference. The analyses employed in order to develop estimates of potential savings as a result of the Merger were necessarily based upon various assumptions which involve judgments with respect to, among other things, future national and regional economic and competitive conditions, inflation rates, regulatory treatment, weather conditions, financial market conditions, interest rates, future business decisions and other uncertainties, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of BGE and PEPCO. Accordingly, while BGE believes that such assumptions are reasonable for purposes of the development of estimates of potential savings, there can be no assurance that such assumptions will approximate actual experience or that all such savings will be realized. State regulators around the United States are also redefining the regulatory scheme for the electric utility industry. The Maryland Public Service Commission (PSC) held hearings in 1995 to consider electric utility restructuring, the impact of competition, and regulatory reform and considered possible scenarios ranging from limited to full competition. The PSC issued a general policy statement in June, 1995 on changes recommended for Maryland's electric industry. It concluded that wholesale competition remains in the best interests of the state's energy consumers, but that in view of the availability of efficient, reliable, comparatively low-cost power, Maryland energy consumers do not currently need retail competition to capture the benefits of the competitive energy market. In addition, the PSC mandated competitive bidding for all new generation and agreed that utilities need flexibility to offer their customers terms and conditions that meet unique customer needs. It is not possible to predict the ultimate effect competition will have on BGE's earnings in the future. In April 1993, the PSC directed that an independent study be performed regarding the distribution of costs between BGE's regulated utility operations and unregulated merchandise and appliance services activities. A coalition of HVAC contractors had alleged that the unregulated operations were being subsidized by the utility. A cost allocation proceeding was held to examine the Company's allocation procedures as well as to deal with the demand by the coalition that the unregulated activities be required to pay a royalty based on unregulated revenues to compensate ratepayers for the use of the BGE name and its goodwill. In August, 1995, the PSC issued an order denying the imposition of royalty payments and requiring BGE to file a cost allocation manual based upon the principle of fully distributed cost allocation. BGE filed the manual in February, 1996. ELECTRIC RATE MATTERS ENERGY CONSERVATION SURCHARGE The PSC approved a base rate surcharge effective July 1, 1992 which provides for the recovery of deferred energy conservation expenditures, a return thereon, lost revenues, and incentives for achievement of predetermined goals for certain conservation programs subject to an earnings test. The compensation for foregone sales due to conservation programs and the incentives for achieving conservation goals must be refunded to customers if BGE is earning in excess of its authorized rate of return, as determined by the PSC. (See discussion in ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS.) The surcharge is reset on July 1 of each year.
ELECTRIC FUEL RATE PROCEEDINGS By statute, electric fuel costs are recoverable if the PSC finds that BGE demonstrates that, among other things, it has maintained the productive capacity of its generating plants at a reasonable level. The PSC and Maryland's highest appellate court have interpreted this as permitting a subjective evaluation of each unplanned outage at BGE's generating plants to determine whether or not BGE had implemented all reasonable and cost effective maintenance and operating control procedures appropriate for preventing the outage. The PSC has established a Generating Unit Performance Program (GUPP) to measure annual utility compliance with maintaining the productive capacity of generating plants at reasonable levels by establishing a system-wide generating performance target and individual performance targets for each base load generating unit. As a result, actual generating performance, after adjustment for planned outages, is compared to the system-wide target and, if met, should signify compliance with the requirements of Maryland law. Failure to meet the system-wide target will result in review of each unit's adjusted actual generating performance versus its performance target in determining compliance with the law, and the basis for possibly imposing a penalty on BGE. Failure to meet these targets requires BGE to demonstrate that the outages causing the failure are not the result of mismanagement. Parties to fuel rate hearings may still question the prudence of BGE's actions or inactions with respect to any given generating plant outage, which could result in a disallowance of replacement energy costs. BGE is involved in fuel rate proceedings annually where issues concerning individual plant outages can be raised. Recovery of a portion of replacement energy costs has been denied in past proceedings and BGE cannot estimate the amount that could be denied in future fuel rate proceedings, but such amounts could be material. (See NUCLEAR OPERATIONS.) BGE is required to submit to the PSC the actual generating performance data for each calendar year 45 days after year end. The PSC reviews BGE's performance for each calendar year in the first fuel rate proceeding initiated following the submission of the actual generating performance data for that year. BGE must initiate fuel rate proceedings in any month following a month during which the calculated fuel rate decreased by more than 5% and may initiate fuel rate proceedings in any month following a month during which the calculated fuel rate increased by more than 5%. NUCLEAR OPERATIONS Discussed below are certain events relating to the operations of the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant (the Plant) during the period 1987 to the present, including issues involving the possible disallowance of replacement energy costs incurred during unplanned outages at the Plant. All outstanding issues will be resolved in fuel rate proceedings before the PSC which are conducted in accordance with the procedures outlined above under RATE MATTERS -- ELECTRIC FUEL RATE PROCEEDINGS. OPERATIONS IN 1987 The Plant generated 10,069,576 megawatt hours (MWH) in 1987 which resulted in a capacity factor of 70%. In October 1988, BGE filed a fuel rate application for a change in its electric fuel rate under GUPP, which covered BGE's operating performance in 1987. This was the first proceeding filed under this program and BGE's filing demonstrated that it met the system-wide and individual plant performance targets for 1987, including the performance target for the Plant. BGE believes, therefore, it is entitled to recover all fuel costs incurred in 1987 without any disallowances. However, People's Counsel alleged that a number of the outages at the Plant, including the 66-day outage to document compliance with NRC mandated environmental qualification requirements, were due to management imprudence and requested that the PSC disallow recovery of the associated replacement energy costs which BGE estimated to be approximately $33 million. On January 23, 1995, the Hearing Examiner issued his decision in the 1987 fuel rate proceeding and found that the Company had met the GUPP standard which establishes a presumption that BGE had operated the Plant at a reasonably productive capacity level. However, the Order found that the presumption of reasonableness would be overcome by a showing of mismanagement and that such a showing was made with respect to the environmental qualifications outage time. In mitigation for meeting the GUPP standard, the Hearing Examiner disallowed replacement energy costs recovery for 15.5 days of the 66-day outage time. The Hearing Examiner's Order was appealed to the PSC by both BGE and People's Counsel. If the PSC upholds the Hearing Examiner, the Company's earnings would be impacted by approximately $4.5 million.
OPERATIONS IN 1988 The Plant generated 11,733,900 MWH in 1988 which resulted in a capacity factor of 81%. BGE filed a fuel rate application under GUPP in May, 1989 in which it demonstrated that it met the system-wide and individual plant performance targets for 1988. People's Counsel alleged that BGE imprudently managed several outages at the Plant and requested that the PSC disallow recovery of $2 million of replacement energy costs. On November 14, 1991, a Hearing Examiner at the PSC issued a proposed Order, which became final on December 17, 1991 and concluded that no disallowance was warranted. The Hearing Examiner found that BGE maintained the productive capacity of the Plant at a reasonable level, noting that it produced a near record amount of power and exceeded the GUPP standard. Based on this record, the Order concluded there was sufficient cause to excuse any avoidable failures to maintain productive capacity at higher levels. OPERATIONS IN 1989 TO 1991 -- EXTENDED OUTAGE The Plant generated 2,719,197 MWH in 1989 and 1,251,416 MWH in 1990. In the Spring of 1989, a leak was discovered around the Unit 2 pressurizer heater sleeves during a refueling outage. BGE shut down Unit 1 as a precautionary measure on May 6, 1989 to inspect for similar leaks and none were found at that time. However, Unit 1 was out of service for the remainder of 1989 and 285 days of 1990 to undergo maintenance and modification work to enhance the reliability of various safety systems, to repair equipment, and to perform required periodic surveillance tests. Unit 2 remained out of service until May 4, 1991 to complete repair of the pressurizer, perform maintenance and modification work, and complete the refueling. The replacement energy costs associated with these extended outages for both Units at Calvert Cliffs, concluding with the return to service of Unit 2, are estimated to be $458 million. This estimate is based on a computer simulation comparing the actual operating conditions during the extended outages with operating conditions assuming the Plant ran at its targeted capacity factor. The extended outages experienced at the Plant are being reviewed by the PSC in the 1989-1991 fuel rate proceeding, and People's Counsel and others have challenged recovery of some part of the associated replacement energy costs. In the PSC's Rate Order issued in BGE's 1990 Base Rate Case, it found that $4 million of operations and maintenance expenses incurred by BGE during the 1989-1990 outages at the Plant should not be recoverable from customers. The PSC concluded that the related work, which was performed at Unit 1 during the 1989-1990 outage, was avoidable and caused by Company actions which were deficient. The work characterized as avoidable had a significant impact on the duration of the Unit 1 outage. The PSC's Order stated that its conclusions in this proceeding did not have a binding effect in the fuel rate proceeding on the recoverability of Calvert Cliffs' replacement energy costs. However, BGE believes that it is doubtful that the PSC will authorize recovery of the full amount of replacement energy costs presently under investigation. Based on a review of the circumstances surrounding the extended outages by BGE personnel as well as independent consultants, in 1990 BGE recorded a provision of $35 million against the possible disallowance of such costs. However, BGE cannot determine whether replacement energy costs may be disallowed in the 1989-1991 fuel rate proceeding in excess of the provision, but such amounts could be material. On March 15, 1994, the PSC Staff and the Office of People's Counsel filed testimony in the 1989-1991 fuel rate proceedings. The PSC Staff concluded that approximately 46% of the outage time was unreasonably incurred and that approximately $200 million of replacement energy costs should be disallowed. People's Counsel concluded that approximately $400 million of the replacement energy costs should be disallowed. BGE filed rebuttal testimony in January 1995 in which it vigorously contested the findings of Staff and People's Counsel. Additional testimony was filed by the PSC Staff and People's Counsel in October 1995 and BGE will file its final testimony in May 1996. Further hearings in this matter are expected to occur in 1996. As previously reported, in December 1988, the NRC categorized the Plant as one requiring close monitoring and increased NRC attention. The NRC did so following certain events that the NRC indicated raised questions about the effectiveness of past corrective action regarding engineering and technical areas and the overall approach to safety at the Plant. Details of such events were described in the Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990 in the section titled "Nuclear Operations" on pages 4 through 7. In February 1992, the NRC removed the Plant from its list of nuclear plants categorized as requiring close monitoring as a result of improved performance in previously identified problem areas and the demonstration of a sustained period of safe operation.
OPERATIONS IN 1991 AFTER THE EXTENDED OUTAGE The Plant generated 9,036,100 MWH in 1991, which resulted in a capacity factor of 63%. BGE filed a fuel rate application under GUPP in June 1992, however, the Hearing Examiner has determined that the 1991 case will not be addressed until the case covering the extended outage has been resolved. OPERATIONS SUBSEQUENT TO THE EXTENDED OUTAGE The Plant generated 10,663,950 MWH in 1992, which resulted in a capacity factor of 74%. There were no contested performance issues based on 1992 performance. The Plant generated 12,300,816 MWH in 1993, which resulted in a capacity factor of 85%. In 1994, the Plant generated 11,225,977 MWH achieving a capacity factor of 77%. Review of the GUPP filings in 1993 and 1994 have been completed. There were no significant performance issues in either of these years and BGE's GUPP filings were approved as filed. The plant generated 12,940,496 MWH in 1995, which resulted in a capacity factor of 88%. A review of 1995 performance will be initiated with BGE's next fuel rate application. ELECTRIC LOAD MANAGEMENT, ENERGY, AND CAPACITY PURCHASES BGE has implemented various active load management programs designed to be used when system operating conditions require a reduction in load. These programs include customer-owned generation and curtailable service for large commercial and industrial customers, air conditioning control which is available to residential and commercial customers, and residential water heater control. The load reductions typically have been invoked on peak summer days; the summer peak capacity impact for 1996 from active load management is expected to be approximately 474 megawatts (MW). Cost recovery for these load management programs is attainable through the inclusion in rate base of capital investments and the appropriate expenses (including credits on customer bills) for recovery in base rate proceedings. The generating and transmission facilities of BGE are interconnected with those of neighboring utility systems to form the Pennsylvania-New Jersey-Maryland Interconnection (PJM). Under the PJM agreement, the interconnected facilities are used for substantial energy interchange and capacity transactions as well as emergency assistance. In addition, BGE enters into short-term capacity transactions at various times to meet PJM obligations. BGE has an agreement with Pennsylvania Power & Light Company (PP&L) to purchase a mix of energy and capacity from June 1, 1990 through May 31, 2001. This agreement, which has been accepted by the FERC, is designed to help maintain adequate reserve margins through this decade and provide flexibility in meeting capacity obligations. The PP&L agreement entitles BGE to 5.94% of the energy output, and net capacity (currently 130 MW), of PP&L's nuclear Susquehanna Steam Electric Station from October 1, 1991 to May 31, 2001 and also enables BGE to treat a portion of PP&L's capacity as BGE's capacity for purposes of satisfying BGE's installed capacity requirements as a member of the PJM. BGE is not acquiring an ownership interest in any of PP&L's generating units. PP&L will continue to control, manage, operate, and maintain that station and all other PP&L-owned generating facilities. BGE's firm capacity purchases at December 31, 1995 represented 170 MW of rated capacity of Bethlehem Steel Corporation's Sparrows Point complex, 57 MW of rated capacity of the Baltimore Refuse Energy Systems Company, and the 130 MW of Susquehanna capacity from PP&L. In 1994 PECO Energy won a competitive bidding program to supply 140 MW for firm electric capacity and associated energy for 25 years beginning June 1, 1998. This contract has been accepted by both FERC and the PSC.
FUEL FOR ELECTRIC GENERATION Information regarding BGE's electric generation by fuel type and the cost of fuels in the five-year period 1991-1995 is set forth in the following tables:
(a) Nuclear fuel costs provide for disposal costs associated with long-term off-site spent fuel storage and shipping, currently set by law at one mill per kilowatt-hour of nuclear generation (approximately 10 cents per million Btu) and for contributions to a fund for decommissioning and decontaminating the Department of Energy's uranium enrichment facility. (SEE FUEL FOR ELECTRIC GENERATION -- NUCLEAR.) (b) Net purchases from (sales to) others. COAL: BGE obtains a large amount of its coal under supply contracts with mining operators. The remainder of its coal requirements are obtained through spot purchases. BGE believes that it will be able to renew such contracts as they expire or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other coal suppliers. BGE's Brandon Shores Units 1 and 2 have a total annual requirement of approximately 3,500,000 tons of coal (combined) with a sulfur content of less than approximately 0.8%. The average delivered costs per ton paid by BGE for Brandon Shores coal for the years 1991 through 1995 were $39.80, $39.98, $39.49, $37.55 and $37.36, respectively. BGE's Crane Units 1 and 2 have a total annual requirement of about 700,000 tons of coal (combined) with a low ash melting temperature. Coal purchased in 1995 had a sulfur content of less than 1% compared to approximately 2.4% in prior years to meet the requirements of the Clean Air Act. The average delivered costs per ton paid by BGE for coal at Crane for the years 1991 through 1995 were $38.88, $38.37, $37.25, $37.42 and $46.50, respectively. BGE's Wagner Units 2 and 3 have a total annual requirement of approximately 900,000 tons of coal (combined) with a sulfur content of no more than 1%. The average delivered costs per ton paid by BGE for coal at Wagner for the years 1991 through 1995 were $44.49, $43.19, $40.62, $37.54 and $37.73, respectively. Coal deliveries to BGE's coal burning facilities are made by rail and barge. The coal used by BGE is produced from mines located in central and northern Appalachia. BGE has a 20.99% undivided interest in the Keystone coal-fired generating plant and a 10.56% undivided interest in the Conemaugh coal-fired generating plant. The bulk of the annual coal requirements for the Keystone plant is under contract from Rochester and Pittsburgh Coal Company. The Conemaugh plant purchases coal from local suppliers on the open market. The average delivered costs per ton for coal for these plants for the years 1991 through 1995 were $33.07, $31.53, $32.42, $33.22 and $32.49, respectively. OIL: Under normal burn practices, BGE's requirements for residual fuel oil amount to approximately 1,000,000 barrels of low-sulfur oil per year. Deliveries of residual fuel oil are made directly into BGE barges from the suppliers' Baltimore Harbor marine terminal for distribution to the various generating plant locations. The average delivered prices per barrel paid by BGE for residual fuel oil for the years 1991 through 1995 were $15.53, $17.25, $15.69, $16.30 and $17.41, respectively. NUCLEAR: The supply of fuel for nuclear generating stations involves the acquisition of uranium concentrates, its conversion to uranium hexafluoride, enrichment of uranium hexafluoride, and the fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies. Information is set forth below with respect to fuel for Calvert Cliffs Units 1 and 2:
The nuclear fuel market is very competitive and BGE does not anticipate any problem in meeting its requirements beyond the periods noted above. Expenditures for nuclear fuel are discussed in MD&A -- LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES on page 29. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (the 1982 Act), spent fuel discharged from nuclear power plants, including Calvert Cliffs, is required to be placed into a federal repository. Such facilities do not currently exist, and, consequently, must be developed and licensed. BGE cannot now predict when such facilities will be available, although the 1982 Act obligates the federal government to accept spent fuel starting in 1998. While BGE cannot now predict what the ultimate cost will be, the 1982 Act assesses a one mill per kilowatt-hour fee on nuclear electricity generated and sold. At anticipated operating levels, it is expected that this fee will be approximately $12 million for Calvert Cliffs each year. Maryland law makes it unlawful to establish within the State a facility for the permanent storage of high-level nuclear waste, unless otherwise expressly required by federal law. BGE has received a license from the NRC to operate its on-site independent spent fuel storage facility. BGE now has storage capacity at Calvert Cliffs that will accommodate spent fuel from operations through the year 2006. In addition, BGE can expand its temporary storage capacity to meet future requirements until federal storage is available. The Energy Policy Act of 1992 (the 1992 Act) contains provisions requiring domestic utilities to contribute to a fund for decommissioning and decontaminating the Department of Energy's (DOE) uranium enrichment facilities. These contributions are generally payable over a fifteen-year period with escalation for inflation and are based upon the amount of uranium enriched by DOE for each utility through 1992. The 1992 Act provides that these costs are recoverable through utility service rates as a cost of fuel. Information about the cost of decommissioning is discussed in NOTE 1 TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on page 42 under the heading "UTILITY PLANT, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION, AND DECOMMISSIONING." GAS: BGE has a firm natural gas transportation entitlement of 3,500 dekatherms a day to provide ignition and banking at certain power plants. Gas for electric generation is purchased as needed in the spot market using interruptible transportation arrangements. Certain gas fired units can use residual fuel oil as an alternative. GAS BUSINESS GAS REGULATORY MATTERS AND COMPETITION Regulatory changes in the natural gas business are well under way. In 1992, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued Order 636, which unbundled gas-service elements. This gave gas users the ability to choose various gas purchasing, transportation, brokering, and storage options. Prior to Order 636, BGE purchased gas, transportation and storage services primarily from pipeline companies. Now, BGE and other local distribution companies buy gas directly from various suppliers and arrange separately for transportation and storage. BGE's large gas customers are arranging for their own gas supplies and are contracting with BGE for transportation. The PSC continues to encourage BGE and other utilities to offer options for unbundling the gas services offered by local distribution companies and allowing smaller customers to arrange for their own gas supplies. Currently as part of its response to the increase in competition in the natural gas business, BGE has proposals before the PSC for profit sharing for capacity release revenues and savings from gas purchases which are less than a predefined city gate index (called Market Based Rates) for sales in BGE's gas territory.
GAS OPERATIONS BGE distributes natural gas purchased directly from several producers and marketers. Transportation to BGE's city gate for these purchases is provided by Columbia Gas Transmission Corporation (Columbia), CNG Transmission Corporation (CNG), and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation under various transportation agreements. BGE has upstream transportation capacity under contract on Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company, Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation, Columbia Gulf Transmission Company and ANR Pipeline Company (ANR). BGE has storage service agreements with Columbia, CNG and ANR. The transportation and storage agreements are on file with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). BGE's current pipeline firm transportation entitlements to serve its firm loads are 473,597 dekatherms (DTH) per day during the winter period and 291,731 DTH per day during the summer period. BGE uses the firm transportation capacity to move gas from the Gulf of Mexico, Louisiana, south central regions of Texas and Canada to BGE's city gate. The gas is subject to a mix of long and short-term contracts that are managed to provide economic, reliable and flexible service. Additional short-term contracts or exchange agreements with other gas companies can be arranged in the event of short-term emergencies. To supplement BGE's gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and to be available in temporary emergencies affecting gas supply, BGE has propane air and liquefied natural gas facilities. The liquefied natural gas facility consists of a plant for the liquefaction and storage of natural gas with a storage capacity of 1,000,000 DTH and a planned daily capacity of 287,988 DTH. The propane air facility consists of a plant with a mined cavern and refrigerated storage facilities having a total storage capacity equivalent to 1,000,000 DTH and a daily capacity of 85,000 DTH. BGE has under contract sufficient volumes of propane for the operation of the propane air facility and is capable of liquefying sufficient volumes of natural gas during the summer months for operation of its liquefied natural gas facility during winter periods. BGE offers gas for sale to its residential, commercial and industrial customers on a firm and interruptible basis. BGE also provides its commercial and industrial customers with a transportation service across its distribution system so that these customers may make direct purchase and transportation arrangements with suppliers and pipelines. BGE also plans to conduct a pilot transportation program for residential customers. A transportation fee is charged by BGE that is equivalent to its operating margin on gas it sells to similar customers for the service from the city gate to the customer's facility. This program enables BGE to maintain throughput at a level which assures that fixed costs are spread over the maximum number of DTH. BGE is authorized by the PSC to provide balancing and gas brokering services for its transportation customers and to bundle pipeline capacity with gas for off-system sales. GAS RATE MATTERS On November 20, 1995, the PSC issued an Order (the 1995 Rate Order) authorizing BGE an annualized gas base rate increase of $19.3 million, including $2.4 million to recover higher depreciation expense. The increase is equivalent to approximately 4.8% of total gas revenues. In granting the increase, the Commission provided a return on BGE's higher level of gas rate base associated with system expansion and improvement and recognized increases in gas operating expenses associated with maintaining the expanded gas distribution system. This was partially offset by a reduction in the authorized gas rate of return to 9.04% from the 9.40% gas rate of return previously authorized. The 1995 Rate Order also provided for the recognition of the remaining portion of postretirement benefits costs not currently included in gas rates and authorized the Company, effective January 1, 1998, to begin amortizing over a fifteen-year period the gas portion of postretirement and postemployment benefit costs deferred prior to December 1995. In addition, the PSC authorized the Company to amortize certain environmental costs incurred through October 1995 over a ten-year period and to defer for future recovery additional environmental costs incurred after that date.
ELECTRIC OPERATING STATISTICS
BGE achieved an all-time peak load of 6,038 megawatts on January 19, 1994. (A) Includes purchases from Safe Harbor Water Power Corporation, a hydroelectric company, of which the Company owns two-thirds of the capital stock. (B) See page 7 for a discussion of active load management programs which may be activated at times of peak load. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation.
GAS OPERATING STATISTICS
BGE achieved an all-time peak day sendout of 761,900 DTH on January 19, 1994. (A) Represents gas purchased by alternate fuel customers directly from suppliers for which BGE receives a fee for transportation through its system ("delivery service"). (SEE MD&A -- RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.) Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current year's presentation.
FRANCHISES BGE has nonexclusive electric and gas franchises to use streets and other highways which are adequate and sufficient to permit BGE to engage in its present business. All such franchises, other than the gas franchises in Manchester, Hampstead, Perryville, Sykesville, Havre de Grace, Mt. Airy, and Montgomery and Frederick Counties, are unlimited as to time. The gas franchises for these jurisdictions expire at various times from 2015 to 2087, except for Havre de Grace which has the right, exercisable at twenty-year intervals from 1907, to purchase all of BGE's gas properties in that municipality. Conditions of the franchises are satisfactory. BGE also has rights-of-way to maintain 26-inch natural gas mains across certain Baltimore City owned property (principally parks) which expire in 1998 and 2004, each subject to renewal during the last year thereof for an additional period of 25 years on a fair revaluation of the rights so granted. Conditions of the grants are satisfactory. Franchise provisions relating to rates have been superseded by the Public Service Commission Law of Maryland. DIVERSIFIED BUSINESSES GENERAL Diversified businesses consist of the operations of the Constellation Companies, HP&S and its subsidiary MES, EP&S, and BNG, Inc. The Constellation Companies' businesses are concentrated in three major areas -- power generation projects, financial investments, and real estate projects (including senior living facilities). A significant portion of the Constellation Companies' activities are conducted through joint ventures in which they hold varying ownership interests. The Constellation Companies hold up to a 50% ownership interest in 25 power generating projects in operation or under construction accounting for $345 million of the Constellation Companies' assets. These projects, all of which either are qualifying facilities under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 or are otherwise exempt from the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, are of the following types and aggregate generation capacities: coal 160 MW, solar 170 MW, geothermal 121 MW, waste coal 182 MW, wood burning 70 MW, hydro 30 MW, and natural gas 182 MW. In addition, another $12 million has been spent on projects in development. The Constellation Companies also participate in the operation and maintenance of 14 power generation projects existing or under construction, 10 of which are projects in which the Constellation Companies hold an ownership interest. Financial investments account for $206 million of the Constellation Companies' assets. These assets include $92 million in internally and externally managed securities portfolios, $78 million in a monoline financial guaranty (credit enhancement) company, and $36 million in tax-oriented transactions. Real estate and senior living projects account for $495 million of the Constellation Companies' assets. These projects include raw land, office buildings, retail, and commercial projects, an entertainment, dining, and retail complex in Orlando, Florida, a mixed-use planned unit development, and senior living facilities. The majority of the real estate projects are in the Baltimore-Washington area and have been adversely affected by the depressed real estate and economic market. The Constellation Companies' investment in wholesale power generating projects includes $197 million representing ownership interests in 16 projects which sell electricity in California under Interim Standard Offer No. 4 (SO4) power purchase agreements. Under these agreements, the projects supply electricity to purchasing utilities at a fixed rate for the first ten years of the agreements and thereafter at fixed capacity payments plus variable energy rates based on the utilities' avoided cost for the remaining term of the agreements. Avoided cost generally represents a utility's next lowest cost generation to service the demands on its system. These power generation projects are scheduled to convert to supplying electricity at avoided cost rates in various years beginning in late 1996 through the end of 2000. As a result of declines in purchasing utilities' avoided costs subsequent to the inception of these agreements, revenues at these projects based on current avoided cost levels would be substantially lower than revenues presently being realized under the fixed price terms of the agreements. At current avoided cost levels, the Constellation Companies could experience reduced earnings or incur losses associated with these projects, which could be significant. While nine projects transition from fixed to variable energy rates in the 1996 through 1998 timeframe, revenues from the other projects having SO4 contracts are expected to continue to increase during this period tending to offset revenue declines on the nine projects. Six of the seven largest revenue producing projects will not make the transition to variable energy rates until the 1999-2000
timeframe such that any material reductions in revenues would not be anticipated until the years 2000 and 2001. The Constellation Companies are investigating and pursuing alternatives for certain of these power generation projects including, but not limited to, repowering the projects to reduce operating costs, changing fuels, renegotiating the power purchase agreements, restructuring financings, and selling its ownership interests in the projects. Two of these wholesale power generating projects, in which the Constellation Companies' investment totals $30 million, have executed agreements with Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) providing for the curtailment of output through the end of the fixed-price period in return for payments from PG&E. The payments from PG&E during the curtailment period will be sufficient to fully amortize the existing project finance debt. However, following the curtailment period, the projects remain contractually obligated to commence production of electricity at the avoided cost rates, which could result in reduced earnings or losses for the reasons described above. The Company cannot predict the impact that these matters regarding any of the 16 projects may have on the Constellation Companies or the Company, but the impact could be material. HP&S was formed in mid 1994. HP&S is engaged in the sales and service of gas and electric appliances. This business recently was expanded to include kitchen remodeling and servicing of heating and air conditioning systems. In December 1994, HP&S acquired MES, a company specializing in installation of commercial and residential heating, air conditioning, and plumbing. EP&S was formed in late 1995. EP&S provides a broad range of customized energy services to major customers including industrial, institutional, and government customers in commercial office buildings, warehouses, educational, healthcare, and retail facilities. These energy services include customer electrical system improvements, lighting and mechanical engineering services, campus and multi-building systems, brokering and associated financial contracts, and district chilled water systems. BNG, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of BGE which engages in natural gas brokering. CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Capital requirements for diversified businesses for 1993 through 1995, along with estimated amounts for 1996 through 1998, are set forth below:
The investment requirements shown above include the Constellation Companies' portion of equity funding to committed projects under development as well as net loans made to project partnerships. The investment requirements for past periods reflect actual funding of projects, whereas investment requirements for the years 1996-1998 reflect the Constellation Companies' estimate of funding during such periods for ongoing and anticipated projects. Also, guarantees of $35 million may be called which are not included above. Estimates of the Constellation Companies' investment requirements are subject to continuous review and modification. Actual investment requirements may vary significantly from the amounts above due to the type and number of projects selected for development, the impact of market conditions on those projects, the ability to obtain financing, and the availability of internally generated cash. The Constellation Companies' investment requirements have been met in the past through the internal generation of cash and through borrowings from institutional lenders. The investment requirements shown above do not include amounts for the Company's other diversified businesses because to date the investment requirements of those businesses have been minimal. See NOTES 3 AND 4 TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND MD&A -- LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES -- DIVERSIFIED BUSINESSES CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS for additional information about diversified activities.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS The Company is subject to regulation with regard to air and water quality, waste disposal, and other environmental matters by various federal, state, and local authorities. Certain of these regulations require substantial expenditures for additions to utility plant and the use of more expensive low-sulfur fuels. While the Company cannot now precisely estimate the total effect of existing and future environmental regulations and standards upon its existing and proposed facilities and operations, the necessity for compliance with existing standards and regulations has caused BGE to increase capital expenditures by approximately $174 million during the five-year period 1991-1995. It is estimated that the capital expenditures necessary to comply with such standards and regulations will be approximately $9 million, $20 million, and $39 million for 1996, 1997, and 1998, respectively. AIR: The Federal Clean Air Act (the Act) mandates health and welfare standards for concentrations of air pollutants. The State of Maryland is charged by the Act with the responsibility for setting limits on all major sources of these pollutants in the State so that these standards are not exceeded. Except for Crane Units 1 and 2, BGE's generating units are limited to burning fuel (coal or oil) with sulfur content of 1% or below. All units are limited to emitting particulate matter at or below 0.02 grains per standard cubic foot of exhaust gas for oil fired units and 0.03 grains per standard cubic foot for coal-fired units. Brandon Shores, a newer plant, is subject to more stringent standards for sulfur dioxide (1.2 pounds per million Btu), and nitrogen dioxide (0.7 pounds per million Btu). The Crane Units must meet limits of 3.5 pounds per million Btu for sulfur dioxide, which is equivalent to a coal sulfur content of approximately 2.4%. BGE is in compliance with existing air quality regulations. The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 contain two titles designed to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide (NOx) from electric generating stations. Title IV contains provisions for compliance in two phases. Phase I of Title IV became effective January 1, 1995, and Phase II of Title IV must be implemented by 2000. BGE met the requirements of Phase I by installing flue gas desulfurization systems and through fuel switching and unit retirements. BGE is currently examining what actions will be required in order to comply with Phase II. However, BGE anticipates that compliance will be attained by some combination of fuel switching, flue gas desulfurization, unit retirements, or allowance trading. At this time, plans for complying with NOx control requirements under Title I of the Act are less certain because all implementation regulations have not yet been finalized by the government. It is expected that by the year 1999 these regulations will require additional NOx controls for ozone attainment at BGE's generating plants and other BGE facilities. The controls will result in additional expenditures that are difficult to predict prior to the issuance of such regulations. Based on existing and proposed ozone nonattainment regulations, BGE currently estimates that the NOx controls at BGE's generating plants will cost approximately $90 million. BGE is currently unable to predict the cost of compliance with the additional requirements at other BGE facilities. WATER: The discharge of effluents into the waters of the State of Maryland is regulated by the Maryland Department of the Environment (MDE), in accordance with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit program, established pursuant to the Federal Clean Water Act. At the present time, all of BGE's steam electric generating plants have the required NPDES permits. MDE water quality regulations require, among other things, specifying procedures for determining compliance with State water quality standards. These procedures require extensive studies involving sampling and monitoring of the waters around affected generating plants. The State of Maryland may require changes in plant operations. At this time BGE continually performs studies to determine whether any modifications will be required to comply with these regulations. WASTE DISPOSAL: The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has promulgated regulations implementing those portions of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act which deal with management of hazardous wastes. These regulations, and the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984, designate certain spent materials as hazardous wastes and establish standards and permit requirements for those who generate, transport, store, or dispose of such wastes. The State of Maryland has adopted similar regulations governing the management of hazardous wastes, which closely parallel the federal regulations. BGE has implemented procedures for compliance with all applicable federal and state regulations governing the management of hazardous wastes. Certain high volume utility wastes such as fly ash and bottom ash have been exempted from these regulations. The Company currently utilizes almost all of its coal fly ash and bottom ash as structural fill material in a
manner approved by the State of Maryland. The remainder of the coal ash is sold to the construction industry for a number of approved applications. The Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund statute) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous wastes found contaminating the soil, water, or air. Those who generated, transported or deposited the waste at the contaminated site are each jointly and severally liable for the cost of the cleanup, as are the current property owner and their predecessors in title at the time of the contamination. In addition, many states have enacted laws similar to the Superfund statute. On October 16, 1989, the EPA filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland under the Superfund statute against BGE and seven other defendants to recover past and future expenditures associated with cleanup of a site located at Kane and Lombard Streets in Baltimore. The State of Maryland intervened by filing a similar complaint in the same case and court on February 12, 1990. The complaints allege that BGE arranged for its fly ash to be deposited on the site. Settlement discussions continue among all parties. Additional investigation was initiated on the remainder of the site by the MDE for the EPA but was never completed. BGE and three other defendants agreed to complete the remedial investigation and feasibility study of groundwater contamination around the site in a July 1993 consent order. The remedial action, if any, for the remainder of the site will not be selected until these investigations are concluded. Therefore, neither the total site cleanup costs, nor BGE's share, can presently be estimated. In the early 1970's, BGE shipped an unknown number of scrapped transformers to Metal Bank of America, a metal reclaimer in Philadelphia. Metal Bank's scrap and storage yard has been found to be contaminated with oil containing high levels of PCBs (PCBs are hazardous chemicals frequently used as a fire-resistant coolant in electrical equipment). On December 7, 1987, the EPA notified BGE and nine other utilities that they are considered potentially responsible parties (PRPs) with respect to the cleanup of the site. A remedial investigation and feasibility study (RI/FS) by BGE and the other PRPs was submitted to the EPA on October 14, 1994. Estimated costs for the various remedies included in the RI/FS range greatly (from $15 million to $45 million). Until a specific remedy is chosen, BGE is not able to predict the actual cleanup costs. BGE's share of the cleanup costs, estimated to be approximately 15.79%, could be material. From 1985 until 1989, BGE shipped waste oil and other materials to the Industrial Solvents and Chemical Company in York County, Pennsylvania for disposal. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources (Pennsylvania Department) subsequently investigated this site and found it to be heavily contaminated by hazardous wastes. The Pennsylvania Department notified BGE on August 15, 1990, that it and approximately 1,000 other entities were PRPs with respect to the cost of all remedial activities to be conducted at the site. The PRPs have agreed to perform waste characterization, remove and dispose of all tanks and drums of waste, and perform a remedial investigation at the site. BGE's share of the liability at this site currently is estimated to be approximately 2.39%, but this may change as additional information about the site is obtained. The actual cost of remedial activities has not been determined. As a result of these factors, BGE's potential liability cannot presently be estimated. However, such liability is not expected to be material. On August 30, 1994, BGE was named as a defendant in UNITED STATES V. KEYSTONE SANITATION COMPANY, ET AL. The litigation was instituted by EPA in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania involving contamination of the Keystone Sanitation Company landfill Superfund site located in Adams County, Pennsylvania. BGE was named as a third party defendant based upon allegations that BGE had drums of asbestos shipped to the site. There are eleven original defendants, approximately 150 other third party defendants, and approximately 570 fourth party defendants. Neither the costs of future site remediation, nor the extent of BGE's potential liability can be estimated at this time. However, such liability is not expected to be material. In December 1995, BGE was notified by the EPA that it is one of approximately 650 parties that may have incurred liability under the Superfund statute for shipments of hazardous wastes to a site in Denver, Colorado known as the RAMP Industries site. BGE, through its disposal vendor, shipped a small amount of low level radioactive waste to the site between 1989 and 1992. The site, which was found to have been operated improperly, was closed in 1994. That same year, the EPA began a clean up of the site which will consist of removal of drums of radioactive and hazardous mixed wastes. To date the EPA has processed approximately one third of the drums and incurred expenses of about $2.2 million. After the EPA completes its drum removal phase of the clean up it will investigate potential soil and groundwater contamination. Although BGE's potential liability cannot be estimated, it is believed that such liability is not likely to be substantial based on the limited amount of waste shipped to the site from BGE facilities.
In the early part of the century, predecessor gas companies (which were later merged into BGE) manufactured coal gas for residential and industrial use. The residue from this manufacturing process was coal tar, previously thought to be harmless but now found to contain a number of chemicals designated by the EPA as hazardous substances. BGE is coordinating an investigation of these former coal gas plant sites, including exploration of corrective action options to remove coal tar, with the MDE. No formal legal proceedings have been instituted against BGE with respect to these sites. The technology for cleaning up such sites is still developing, and potential remedies for these sites have not been determined. As explained in NOTE 12 TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on page 52, BGE has recognized estimated environmental costs at these sites totaling $38.6 million as of December 31, 1995. Any cleanup costs for these sites in excess of the amount accrued, which could be significant in total, cannot presently be estimated. On May 3, 1994 Constellation Power, Inc. (formerly "Constellation Energy, Inc.") (CPI) was named as a defendant in REPUBLIC IMPERIAL ACQUISITION V. STOCKMAR ENERGY, INC., ET AL. Civil No. 940120R(LSP) (Dist. Ct., So. Dist. California). The plaintiffs are owners of a non-hazardous waste landfill located in Imperial County, California. The plaintiffs allege that defendants delivered hazardous materials consisting of spent geothermal filters containing certain metals used in the operation of four geothermal projects. The claims are made under the Superfund statute and state and common law against the operators, project owners and others. Certain CPI subsidiaries have ownership interests in three of the projects. These Constellation Companies have indemnification rights from project lessees and operators. Approximately 45 other defendants, in addition to CPI, have been named to date. The Constellation Companies are currently evaluating the claims and site investigation is at a preliminary stage. As a result, total investigation and clean up costs, as well as the Constellation Companies' share of such costs, cannot presently be estimated. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 1995, BGE employed 7,275 people for its utility operations and 729 people for its subsidiaries, excluding the Constellation companies. Five hundred seventy-five people were employed by Constellation Holdings, Inc., including its subsidiaries involved in the operation of power projects and senior living facilities. In addition, the Constellation Companies employ approximately 800 employees at an entertainment, dining, and retail complex in Orlando, Florida.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ELECTRIC: The principal electric generating plants of BGE are as follows:
(A) BGE-owned proportionate interest and entitlement. These totals include diesel capacity of 2 megawatts and 1 megawatt for Keystone and Conemaugh, respectively. BGE also owns two-thirds of the outstanding capital stock of Safe Harbor Water Power Corporation, and is currently entitled to 277 megawatts of the rated capacity of the Safe Harbor Hydroelectric Project. Safe Harbor is operated under a FERC license which expires in the year 2030. GAS: BGE has propane air and liquefied natural gas facilities as described in Gas Operations on page 10. GENERAL: All of the principal plants and other important units of BGE located in Maryland are held in fee except that several properties (not including any principal electric or gas generating plant or the principal headquarters building owned by BGE in downtown Baltimore) in BGE's service area are held under lease arrangements. The leased spaces are used for various offices and service. Electric transmission and electric and gas distribution lines are constructed principally (a) in public streets and highways pursuant to franchises or (b) on permanent fee simple or easement rights-of-way secured for the most part by grants from record owners and as to a relatively small part by condemnation. BGE's undivided interests as a tenant-in-common in the properties acquired for the Keystone and Conemaugh Plants located in Pennsylvania are held in fee by BGE, subject to minor defects and encumbrances which do not materially interfere with the use of the properties by BGE. All of BGE's property referred to above is subject to the lien of the Mortgage securing BGE's First Refunding Mortgage Bonds. ITEM 3.