Item 2. Properties
Our principal executive offices occupy approximately 11,275 square feet in Seattle, Washington pursuant to a lease dated April 26, 2005, as amended, which expires in August 2013. In June 2009, we completed the relocation of our corporate offices from Newport Beach, California to Seattle, Washington.
We believe that our existing facilities are sufficient to meet our present needs and anticipated needs for the foreseeable future. However, additional facilities may be required in connection with any future business acquisitions we may undertake.
Information about our cruise ships, including their size and primary areas of operation may be found within Item 1, “Business - Business Operations”.
The United States Maritime Administration (“MARAD”) filed a claim in the amount of $300,000 against us in the US District court of Oregon seeking settlement of one month’s payment under a charter agreement related to the Empress of the North®, prior to the vessel’s return in 2008, and a claim for amounts paid to third parties, if any, that may qualify under federal debt priority statutes. We filed a counter claim against MARAD which seeks repayment from MARAD for inventory on the ship at the time of the return and insurance proceeds related to reimbursement for repairs to the ship funded by us. In January 2010, we received a proposed settlement offer from the U.S. Department of Justice and in January 2010, our Board of Directors approved the settlement offer. The terms of the settlement require us to make the payment under the charter agreement of $300,000 and accept a final payment from the U.S. government of $50,000, representing reimbursement to us for costs we previously incurred. We will dismiss our claim to receive any insurance proceeds previously retained by the U.S. government. The final settlement agreement and payments are expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2010.
MARAD has also filed a judgment against the Company for the collection of $1.2 million in connection with the acquisition of the American Queen® as discussed in Note 11. Trial date in this case is scheduled during the second quarter of 2010. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against this claim.
PART II
Item 5.
Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
Stock Market and Other Information
Our common stock is traded and prices are quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “AMIE.” As of March 12, 2010, there were 42 holders of record of our common stock not including beneficial owners holding shares through nominee or street name.
The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of a share of our common stock as quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market for the periods indicated:
The Company did not declare or pay any dividends on its common stock during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The payment of dividends is prohibited by our debt instruments.
Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
On November 13, 2009, we completed the Exchange Offer, in which holders of approximately $65.8 million aggregate principal amount of our Convertible Notes exchanged their Convertible Notes for approximately $18.0 million aggregate principal amount in our newly issued Senior Secured Notes maturing January 2012 and approximately 15.2 million shares of our common stock.
Transfer Agent and Registrar
BNY Mellon Shareowner Services serves as transfer agent and registrar of our common stock.
Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers
Not applicable.
Not applicable.
Item 7.
Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(The following discussion reflects the retroactive application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 470-20-25, Debt with Conversion Options, the reclassification of certain businesses of the Company as discontinued operations in accordance with FASB ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements - Discontinued Operations, and the reclassification of the 2008 loss on disposal on two vessels from Other income (expense) to Operating loss from continuing operations.)
Overview
The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others, those identified under “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and elsewhere in this annual report. During 2009, the Company operated in the following business segments: cruise, which includes the operations of Windstar Cruises and Majestic American Line, and corporate and other, which consists of general corporate assets and liabilities.
Cruise Operations - Our current cruise operations include the Windstar Cruise vessels which are international-flagged ships that sail to destinations in the Caribbean, Europe, the Americas and the Greek Isles. Windstar Cruises operates three sailing yachts including Wind Surf, Wind Spirit and Wind Star known for their ability to visit the hidden harbors and secluded coves of the world’s most treasured destinations. The luxurious ships of Windstar sail to nearly 50 nations, calling at approximately 100 ports throughout Europe, the Caribbean and the Americas.
During 2009 and continuing in 2010, we are focused on improving our Windstar Cruises business performance and have identified several major areas for improvement as follows:
•
increase our sales and marketing efficiencies to drive more sales, which will enable us to scale our campaigns to a level appropriate for a company of our size; and
•
reduce operational costs by continuing to renegotiate key vendor contracts that will allow for significant direct cost savings, efficiency gain and product improvements.
•
In September 2009 we completed the transition of our vessel management from a third-party vendor to in-house management. This transition is expected to result in efficiency gains and lower operating costs.
Majestic America Line- In April 2008, we announced plans to sell and cease operating the Majestic America Line, our U.S. flagged cruise ships that sailed along the inland rivers and coastal waterways of North America at the conclusion of the 2008 sailing season. The vessels are currently in lay up status and did not operate in 2009 as we plan to exit the business in an orderly fashion. We sold one of the vessels, Queen of the West, in November 2009. As of December 31, 2009 we have four remaining vessels of Majestic American Line that we will continue marketing and disposition activities in 2010, although there can be no assurances that we will be successful in the disposition of the vessels or in locating qualified buyers in a timely fashion.
Travel & Events- In April 2009 we sold a significant portion of the travel and events business whereby we completed an asset sale of certain assets related to the housing portion of the business. The buyer also assumed certain liabilities related to housing. We retained the events component of the business and completed all 2009 programs as scheduled. As of December 31, 2009, we have completed all programs and exited the events business in an efficient and orderly fashion.
Marine- In May 2009 we sold Marine Group to a company formed by our former chief executive officer through a stock sale for $5 million in cash proceeds. These proceeds were used to fund current operations.
Re-insurance- In September 2009 we executed an assignment agreement with a third party whereby all re-insurance assets were assigned and the related liabilities were assumed by the third party. The Company recorded a $1.8 million loss on the disposition of the re-insurance business. Because the Company no longer had an obligation for potential claims under the re-insurance programs and certain programs were concluded during 2009, letters of credit used to collateralize former re-insurance obligations were cancelled, releasing cash of $5.9 million. The Company used the cash to fund current operations. In addition to the assignment agreement, the Company also entered into a profit sharing agreement with the third party that allows the Company to participate in up to 50% of net profit distributions minus losses and expenses as the remaining programs wind down. Although there is a potential for additional cash distributions over the next several years, the profit distributions are contingent on the underlying insurance program performance and release of the profits are subject to regulatory approval.
The operations of the Marine Group, Cypress Re, and Travel and Events are shown as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The assets and liabilities of Cypress Re, Travel and Events and the Marine Group at December 31, 2008 were classified as “held for sale”.
Exchange Offer and Credit Facility
In September 2009, we launched an exchange offer (the “Exchange Offer”) to exchange each $1,000 principal amount of our outstanding 3.75% Convertible Notes due 2027 (the “Convertible Notes”) for: (i) 230.3766 shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and (ii) 273.1959 principal amount of 10% Senior Secured Notes, due 2012, including guarantees from the Company’s subsidiaries, (the “Senior Notes”). Interest on the Senior Notes can be payable in kind or in cash, at the Company’s option.
On November 13, 2009, we consummated the Exchange Offer. Approximately $65.8 million aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes were validly tendered and accepted. In exchange for the tendered Convertible Notes, we issued approximately $18.0 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes and approximately 15.2 million shares of our common stock. Approximately $31.2 million aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes remain outstanding. Our stockholders approved the issuance of the shares of common stock in the Exchange Offer at a special stockholder meeting held on November 12, 2009.
In March 2010, we entered into a $15.0 million credit facility which is composed of a $10.0 million term loan facility and a $5.0 million revolving line of credit. In connection with the establishment of the new credit facility, we paid fees of $0.6 million. Borrowings under the facility bears interest at 12%, are secured on a first priority basis by substantially all of our assets and mature on January 2, 2012. The credit facility requires an annual commitment fee equal to 4% of each of the term loan and the outstanding revolving credit commitment.
Critical Accounting Policies
Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and costs and expenses during the period. We evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those which impact our most critical accounting policies, on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, within the framework of current accounting literature.
Our businesses are seasonal. Historically, we have recognized the majority of our operating results in the first and second quarters of each fiscal year. As a result of our business strategy to focus only on the international cruise operations, the majority of our operating results are recognized in the third quarter of each fiscal year, which coincides with our cruising season. Our annual results would be adversely affected if our revenue were to be substantially below seasonal norms during any quarter, particularly the third quarter of any year.
The following is a list of the accounting policies that we believe require the most significant judgments and estimates, and that could potentially result in materially different results under different assumptions or conditions.
Property, Vessels and Equipment
Property, vessels and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. We expense the cost of maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the lives of the respective assets when incurred. Major additions and betterments are capitalized. Our ships are capitalized and depreciated using the straight-line method over the expected useful life ranging up to 30 years, net of a residual value that generally is approximately 15%. Ship replacement parts are capitalized and depreciated upon being placed in service. Office equipment is capitalized and depreciated using the straight-line method over the expected useful life of the equipment, ranging up to 10 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the lesser of the expected useful life of the improvement or the term of the related lease.
We perform reviews for the impairment of property, vessels and equipment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment reviews of our vessels require us to make significant estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of these assets. One input in our fair value review is comparable ship sale prices and other comparable ship values in inactive markets. We also use discounted future cash flow analysis to estimate fair value. Discounted cash flow analysis requires significant judgments related to forecasting future operating results, including net revenue yields, net cruise costs including fuel prices, capacity increases, terminal values, cruise itineraries, consumer demand, and competition, among others. In addition, third party appraisers are sometimes used to assist in the determination of fair values of vessels. Third party appraisers and their valuation methodologies are also subject to uncertainties similar to those discussed above. We performed a review of our property, vessels and equipment during 2009 and recorded impairments to the carrying values of these assets.
Drydocking
We capitalize drydocking costs as incurred and amortize such costs over the period to the next scheduled drydock. We believe that the deferral method provides a better matching of revenues and expenses. Drydocking costs are included in prepaid and other current assets and in long term assets in the accompanying balance sheet and are amortized over the cruising season between scheduled dry dockings.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment at least annually or sooner whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that they may be impaired. We evaluate recoverability using both subjective and objective factors. Subjective factors include the evaluation of industry and product trends and our strategic focus. Objective factors include observable inputs such as third party appraisals and our estimates of projected future earnings and cash flows. We use a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair market value of each of our reporting units and other observable inputs when we test goodwill for impairment. Assumptions used include growth rates for revenues and expenses, investment yields on deposits, any future capital expenditure requirements and appropriate discount rates. We established reporting units based on our current reporting structure. For purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated to reporting units to the extent it related to each reporting unit. Intangible assets with finite lives are tested for impairment using an undiscounted cash flow model and other valuation techniques such as the income approach.
In addition, in determining our trade name fair value we also use discounted future cash flow analysis, which requires significant judgments and estimates. Specifically, determining the estimated amount of royalties avoided by our ownership of the trademark is based on forecasted cruise revenues and estimated royalty rates based on comparable royalty agreements used in similar industries.
Revenue Recognition
We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service fee is fixed or determinable, collectability is reasonably assured and delivery has occurred.
Passenger Ticket Revenue and Onboard and Other Cruise Revenues
We record passenger ticket revenue net of applicable discounts and recognize passenger ticket revenue and related costs of revenue when the cruise is completed. We generally receive from our customers a partially refundable deposit within one week of booking a tour, with the balance typically remitted 90 days prior to the departure date. If customers cancel their trip, the nonrefundable portion of their deposit is recognized as revenue on the date of cancellation. Passenger revenue representing travel insurance purchased at the time of reservation is recognized upon the completion of the cruise or passenger cancellation, whichever is earlier and our obligation has been met. Onboard and other cruise revenue consisting of beverage and souvenir sales and optional shore excursions are deferred and recognized as revenue when the cruise is completed.
We recognize revenue from hotel reservation, registration and related travel services when the convention operates. Revenue from the sale of merchandise is recognized when the merchandise is shipped, the service has been provided or when the redemption periods have expired. We defer revenue from prepaid, certificate-based merchandise incentive programs until our obligations are fulfilled. These revenues have been reported on a net basis, reflecting the net effect of gross billings to the client less any direct program or merchandise costs. As of December 31, 2009, we have completed all obligations related to the Travel and Events programs and have recognized all revenues. We will not engage in this business in periods subsequent to 2009.
Income Taxes
As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate income taxes in each of the countries and other jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance, or increase this allowance in a period, it may result in an expense within the tax provision in the statement of operations. Conversely, to the extent we determine that a valuation allowance is no longer necessary, it may result in a benefit within the tax provision in the statement of operations. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We have provided a full valuation allowance on deferred tax assets because of our uncertainty regarding their realizability. If we determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets, or a portion thereof, would be realized, the valuation allowance would be reversed. In order to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the net deferred domestic tax asset is subject to a 100% valuation allowance.
Share Based Compensation
We have certain share-based employee compensation plans, which are more fully described in Note 13, “Stock Plans.” The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton formula to estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees. Expected volatility is based on historical volatilities. The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected option life assumed at the date of grant. The expected term is calculated based on historical experience and represents the time period options actually remain outstanding. The Company estimated forfeitures based on historical pre-vesting forfeitures and will revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The estimated fair values of the financial instruments as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows (in thousands):
Results of Operations
The following table reflects certain income and expense items as a percentage of revenue:
Business Segment Information
We report the following business segments: (i) cruise and (ii) corporate and other, which consists of general corporate assets and liabilities (primarily cash, cash equivalents and long term debt), and other activities which are not directly related to our cruise operating segment. We reported our Marine Group and our Travel and Events as business segments in 2008 and included our reinsurance business Cypress Re, within the corporate segment. The operations of the Marine Group, Travel and Events and Cypress Re are shown as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements-Discontinued Operations, provides that if a discontinued operation had been a reportable segment, we are not required to disclose information about the discontinued segment as required by FASB ASC 280, Segment Reporting. Accordingly, our segment reporting has been updated to exclude the Marine Group, Travel and Events and Cypress Re.
Selected financial information related to these segments is as follows (in thousands):
Statistical Terminology and Information for Cruise Operations
Available Passenger Cruise Days (“APCD”)
APCD’s are our measurement of capacity and represent double occupancy per cabin multiplied by the number of cruise days for the period.
Occupancy
Occupancy, in accordance with the cruise vacation industry practice, is calculated by dividing Passenger Cruise Days by APCD. A percentage in excess of 100% indicates that three or more passengers occupied some cabins.
Passenger Cruise Days
Passenger Cruise Days represent the number of passengers carried for the period multiplied by the number of days in their respective cruises.
Selected Windstar operational statistical information is as follows:
Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Results for the Year Ended December 31,
Revenue
Total revenue from continuing operations in 2009 was $61.3 million, compared to $153.7 million in 2008, a decrease of $92.4 million. The decrease in revenue is primarily related to Majestic America Line which did not operate in 2009 and which generated $73.5 million in revenues during 2008. Our Windstar Cruises passenger revenue decreased $14 million or (23%) from $61.3 million in 2008 to $47.2 million in 2009. Onboard revenues decreased $4.8 million or (25.7%) from $18.9 million in 2008 to $14.0 million in 2009. The reduction in Windstar Cruises passenger ticket revenues are primarily due to lower ticket prices and occupancy rates caused by current economic conditions and overall reduction in consumer discretionary spending.
Cruise Operating Expenses
Cruise operating expenses represent direct costs incurred with owning and operating our cruise ships. Cruise operating expenses decreased $71.5 million (57%) from $124.6 million in 2008 to $53.1 million in 2009. This reduction in overall expenditures is due to Majestic America Line vessels not operating in 2009. Cruise operating expenses for Windstar Cruises decreased $9.2 million or (15%) to $52.3 million in 2009 from $61.5 million in 2008. This reduction is attributable to lower fuel costs during 2009 and the transition of vessel management from a third party management company to in house personnel during the third quarter of 2009.
Selling and Tour Promotion
Selling and tour promotion expenses totaled $7.9 million in 2009, compared to $12.3 million in 2008. The decrease is primarily due to the absence of promotion and marketing expenses for the Majestic America Line in 2009. Selling and tour promotion expenses related to Windstar Cruises increased $0.9 million in 2009 to $7.9 million in 2009 from $7.0 million in 2008. The increase in costs in 2009 is attributable to operational efforts targeted at increasing occupancy during the economic down turn.
General and Administrative Expenses
General and administrative expenses decreased $12.5 million from $19.2 million in 2008 to $6.8 million in 2009 or (64.8%). As a percentage of total revenue, general and administrative expenses decreased to 11% in 2009 from 13% in 2008. The decrease is primarily due to the reduction in the number of operating divisions and the consolidation of the corporate headquarters during 2009.
Insurance Settlement
During 2009, we reached a settlement with an insurance company and received a $1.2 million business interruption claim associated with 2007 sailing incidents involving the Empress of the North and the Queen of the West of the Majestic American Line. There were no similar transactions for the year ended December 31, 2008. The insurance proceeds are reflected as a reduction in operating expenses from continuing operations in 2009.
Impairment charges
During 2009 we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $51.3 million. There were no comparable charges recorded in continuing operations during the year ended December 31, 2008. The 2009 charges are as follows: $27.7 million related to the three vessels of the Windstar Cruise fleet; $21.8 million related to Majestic America Line vessels and $1.8 million related to the Windstar Cruise trade name. Our impairment analysis of the long-lived vessel assets included observable and unobservable inputs to estimate the fair value under the market approach and income approach valuation techniques. The market approach to estimate the fair value of the assets was based on observable inputs, including third party appraisal reports, sales of other vessels and estimated replacement value. The Company’s income approach to estimate the fair value of the assets included a discounted cash flow model based on unobservable inputs and a range of future probabilities, including fluctuations in operating costs.
Depreciation and Amortization
Depreciation and amortization expense was $9.8 million in 2009 compared to $13.2 million recorded in 2008. The decrease is related to the disposition to MARAD of two Majestic American Line vessels in the later half of 2008 as well as the reduction in carrying value of certain Majestic America Line vessels during 2009.
Operating loss from continuing operations
We reported an operating loss from continuing operations of $66.4 million in 2009 compared to an operating loss from continuing operations of $22.7 million in 2008 or an increase in operating losses of $43.7 million year over year. The primary driver of the current year operating loss is the non cash impairment charges of $51.3 million described above. Operating loss from the cruise segment in 2008 includes a $7.0 million net loss on the disposal of two Majestic American Line vessels upon the return of the vessels to MARAD.
Other changes in operating losses from 2008 to 2009 are the result of events described above.
Other Income (Expense)
In 2009 we recorded other income (expense) of $23.4 million compared to ($2.1) million in 2008. In November 2009, we completed the Exchange Offer for $65.8 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes which were validly tendered and accepted. In exchange for the tendered Convertible Notes, we issued approximately $18.0 million aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes and 15.2 million shares of our common stock. The difference between the carrying value of the Convertible Notes plus accrued interest at the time of the exchange and the Senior Notes, including future interest costs, the value of the common shares issued and less third party direct costs of the transaction, resulted in a gain on debt restructure of $29.5 million during 2009. No similar transaction occurred in 2008.
Other expense during 2009 and 2008 includes $5.9 million and $8.3 million, respectively of interest expense related to our Convertible Notes. The reduction of interest expense in 2009 reflects the Exchange Offer, including the reduction in interest due for the interest period from April 16, 2009 to completion of the Exchange Offer.
Other income in 2008 consisted primarily of $1.1 million in legal settlement related to the grounding of the Empress of the North in March 2006; $2.6 million in settlement of the dispute related to the purchase of Windstar Cruises and $0.8 million in insurance proceeds related to the Empress of the North and Queen of the West ship incidents in 2007 and 2006. No such legal settlements occurred in 2009.
Income Taxes
We recorded income tax expense of $83,000 and $53,000, respectively for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, attributable to continuing operations. We recorded a full valuation allowance on our domestic deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. A significant factor in determining the requirement for the valuation allowance was our cumulative three-year historical loss. The establishment of a valuation allowance does not have any impact on cash, nor does such an allowance preclude us from utilizing any available loss carry-forwards in the future. The Exchange Offer constituted a change of control in ownership as defined by Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The ownership change has and will continue to subject our net operating loss carryforwards to an annual limitation, which will significantly restrict our ability to use them to offset taxable income in periods following the ownership change.
Loss from continuing operations
Loss from continuing operations was $43.1 million in 2009 compared to $24.8 million in 2008 or an increase of $18.3 million. This increase is primarily attributable to the non cash impairment charge of $51.3 million, offset by the non cash gain on debt restructure of $29.5 million.
Loss from discontinued operations
Loss from discontinued operations was $13.4 million during 2009 compared to a loss of $14.4 million in 2008. The loss in 2009 is attributable primarily to losses incurred in the disposition of the Marine Group, Travel and Events and Cypress Re whereby the carrying value of the net assets sold or assigned were greater than the sales proceeds. The loss in 2008 relates to the operating losses associated with the Marine Group which was attributable to an impairment and reduction in revenues and the operating losses of Cypress Re, offset by $1.7 million in income from Travel and Events
Net Loss
Net loss was $51.6 million in 2009 compared to $38.2 million in 2008 as a result of changes described above.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Due to the global downturn in the economy and other factors, we have restructured our long term indebtedness, restructured our operations, and obtained additional sources of financing. The downturn in the economy and these restructuring activities have resulted in cash outflows from operating activities of $16.3 million in 2009 and $18.6 million in 2008.
We have been successful in obtaining the $15 million Credit Facility to provide funding for drydock costs for two Windstar vessels as well as working capital and other corporate purposes. Additionally, in 2009, we restructured a significant portion of the Convertible Notes in the Exchange Offer. In addition to reducing outstanding indebtedness and obtaining the Credit Facility, we have restructured our core business activities so as to allow us to dedicate liquidity resources to the operations and growth of Windstar Cruises.
In 2010, as in other years, we will incur capital expenditures and costs for improvements required in the maintenance of our ships. In 2010, planned capital expenditures and drydock projects are expected to be approximately $7.0 million for our vessels. We have a scheduled drydock in April 2010 for the Wind Sprit where we expect to incur $4.5 million in refurbishments. We also have a scheduled drydock project for the Wind Star in November 2010 where we expect to incur $2.5 million in refurbishments.
We believe that the operating cash flows, financing cash flows, and investing cash flows projected for 2010, and the cash and cash equivalents of $2.6 million at December 31, 2009, (including amounts available under the Credit Facility) will be sufficient to fund ongoing operations through 2010. We expect our business improvement initiatives and other actions will improve our operating income and cash flow results. However, the timing and extent of success for these strategies cannot be predicted with any level of certainty. If we are unable to meet our cash flow projections in 2010, we may need to seek additional sources of funding. If the pricing or terms for any new financing do not meet our expectations, we may be required to choose between completion of the financing on such unfavorable terms or not completing the financing. If sources of capital are unavailable, or are available only on a limited basis or under unacceptable terms, then we could be required to substantially reduce operating, marketing, general and administrative costs related to our continuing operations.
Substantially all of our long-term indebtedness is scheduled to mature or may need to be repaid during 2012. We do not expect that our cash flows from operations will generate sufficient funds to enable us to repay or repurchase this indebtedness when we are required to do so in 2012. Accordingly, our ability to satisfy these obligations will depend upon our ability to refinance this indebtedness or to obtain additional funds through borrowings, sales of debt or equity securities, asset sales or other transactions.
Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility
On March 23, 2010, we established a term loan and revolving credit facility for working capital purposes (the “Credit Facility”), the terms of which are governed by a Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”), by and among the Company, our subsidiaries (as borrowers and/or guarantors), Whippoorwill Associates, Inc. (and/or certain funds and accounts managed by it) (“Whippoorwill”) as lenders and Law Debenture Trust Company of New York, as administrative agent and as collateral agent. The Credit Facility provides for a $5 million revolving credit facility and for a $10 million term loan to be drawn in two tranches, all of which is to be used to fund dry-dock costs for two Windstar vessels as well as working capital and other corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. On March 23, 2010, the first tranche of the term loan, in the amount of $7.5 million, was funded. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate of 12 percent per annum, are secured (on a first priority basis) by substantially all the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, and mature on January 2, 2012. The Credit Facility provides for payment of a 4% annual facility fee to the lenders and customary agent fees. The Credit Facility contains various
restrictive and financial covenants, including a requirement that we achieve certain minimum EBITDA levels and a limitation on our capital expenditures. There are also restrictions regarding the use of the proceeds under the Credit Facility. We plan to use a significant amount of the proceeds borrowed under the Credit Facility to fund our scheduled drydocks in April and November of 2010, as discussed below.
Cash Flows
Net cash used in operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $16.3 million and $18.6 million, respectively. The $2.3 million increase in cash flows from operations in 2009 compared to 2008 is primarily due to the increase in net loss adjusted for non-cash related gains and losses incurred during the current year. We made payments of $7.9 million during 2009 in settlement of trade accounts payable and accrued expenses. During 2008, net cash used in operating activities reflects a $27.5 million reduction in operating cash due to the decline in customer deposits for the cruise business activity.
Net cash provided by investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $8.7 million and $10.4 million, respectively. Cash provided by investing activities in 2009 was attributable to cash received in the release of collateral related to certificates of deposits previously required in the re-insurance business and a reduction in amounts required by banks for credit card processing. During 2009 cash from investing activities was also provided from the sale of a Majestic American Line vessel partially offset by activities in segments compromising discontinued operations prior to disposition.
Net cash used in financing activities during 2009 was $48,000 related to activities in segments compromising discontinued operations prior to disposition. Net cash used in financing activities in 2008 totaled $3.7 million, primarily attributable to repayments of long term debt.
As of December 31, 2009, we had an outstanding line of credit of $70,000 which is secured by a certificate of deposit in the same amount and is classified as restricted cash as of December 31, 2009. Both the line of credit and certificate of deposit relate to insurance programs which expire at various dates through 2010. We have exited the re-insurance business and expect to cancel the line of credit and receive funds from the certificate of deposit in 2010.
Our cruise passenger deposits are primarily received through credit card transactions. As of December 31, 2009, we had $11.0 million of restricted cash held by banks in cash equivalents required for secure processing of passenger deposits through credit cards. The restricted amounts were negotiated between us and the banks based on a percentage of the expected future volume of credit card transactions within a standard twelve-month period. Due to reductions in the insurance contract liabilities associated with our sold re-insurance business, we were able to reduce certain letters of credit requirements during 2009, this reduction made available $5.9 million of cash that was previously restricted. Accordingly this reduction allowed us to reduce our bank line of credit that secured the letters of credit to $70,000 as of December 31, 2009.
We currently are in compliance with all covenants under our 3.75% Senior Convertible Notes and 10% Senior Secured Notes and our Credit Facility.
Off-Balance Sheet Transactions
We do not maintain any off-balance sheet transactions, arrangements, obligations or other relationships with unconsolidated entities or others that will have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. A forward-looking statement may contain words such as “expect,” “anticipate,” “outlook,” “could,” “target,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “should,” “may,” “assume,” “continue,” and variations of such words and similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and
assumptions that are difficult to predict. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied, or forecasted by our forward-looking statements. We have based our forward-looking statements on our management’s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements were made. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others:
•
our ability to obtain additional financing at reasonable rates;
•
our ability to continue to operate as a going concern;
•
our ability to effectively and efficiently operate our cruise operations;
•
customer cancellation rates;
•
competitive conditions in the industry in which we operate;
•
marketing expenses;
•
extreme weather conditions;
•
the impact of new laws and regulations affecting our business;
•
negative incidents involving cruise ships, including those involving the health and safety of passengers;
•
cruise ship maintenance problems;
•
reduced consumer demand for vacations and cruise vacations;
•
changes in fuel, food, payroll, insurance and security costs;
•
changes in relationships with certain travel providers;
•
changes in vacation industry capacity;
•
other economic factors and other considerations affecting the travel industry; and
•
other factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
A more complete discussion of these risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors, may be identified from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in our press releases. We disclaim any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Item 7A.
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk
Not applicable.
Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
The Financial Statements and Supplementary Data reflect the retroactive application of FASB ASC 470-20-25, Debt with Conversion and Other Options and the reclassification of certain businesses of the Company as discontinued operations in accordance with ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements - Discontinued Operations.
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
Board of Directors and Stockholders
Ambassadors International, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Ambassadors International, Inc. as of December 31, 2009, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the year then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Ambassadors International, Inc. as of December 31, 2009, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for its convertible debt instruments with the adoption of FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options on January 1, 2009, the Company retrospectively adjusted its consolidated financial statements to reflect the presentation and disclosure requirements of this new accounting standard.
/s/ Moss Adams LLP
Seattle, Washington
March 31, 2010
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
Board of Directors and Stockholders
Ambassadors International, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Ambassadors International, Inc. as of December 31, 2008, and the related consolidated statement of operations (as restated), changes in stockholders’ equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Ambassadors International, Inc. at December 31, 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations (as restated) and its cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As discussed in Note 1, the accompanying consolidated statement of operations for 2008 has been restated for the correction of a classification error. This error resulted from the exclusion of the loss from disposal of certain assets from the subtotal of the Company’s operating loss from continuing operations.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, as a result of the adoption of of the amendments to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 470-20, Debt with Conversions and Other Options (“ASC 470-20”) on January 1, 2009, the Company retrospectively adjusted its consolidated financial statements to reflect the presentation and disclosure requirements of this new accounting standard.
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that Ambassadors International, Inc. will continue as a going concern. The current economic environment is negatively impacting the Company. The Company has incurred recurring operating losses and is not in compliance with certain debt covenants at December 31, 2008. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. As more fully described in Note 1, the Company has announced plans to be a cruise only company and has initiated a plan to sell all non-Windstar assets. The 2008 financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty.
/s/ ERNST & YOUNG
Irvine, California
April 14, 2009
except for the effects on the consolidated
financial statements of i) the retrospective
application of ASC 470-20 to all periods
presented, ii) the restatement, and iii) the
discontinued operations, all described in
Note 1, as to which the dates are
September 25, 2009, October 29, 2009, and
March 31, 2010, respectively
Ambassadors International, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in thousands, except share and per share data)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Ambassadors International, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in thousands, except per share data)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Ambassadors International, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations continued
(in thousands, except per share data)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity
(in thousands, except per share data)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
Ambassadors International, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (in thousands)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
1. Description of the Company and Basis of Presentation
The Company
In 2009, Ambassadors International, Inc. (the “Company”) continued to implement its previously announced business strategy of focusing on the international cruise operations of its subsidiary, Windstar Sail Cruises Limited (“Windstar Cruises”). Windstar Cruises maintains a fleet of three internationally-flagged luxury yachts that provide travel and cruise opportunities to explore hidden harbors and secluded coves of treasured destinations with sailings in the Caribbean, Europe, the Americas and the Greek Isles.
During 2009, the Company operated in the following business segments: (i) cruise, which includes the operations of Windstar Cruises and Majestic American Line, and (ii) corporate and other, which consists of general corporate assets and liabilities. Prior to 2009, the Company operated in the marine segment that included the operations of the Marine Group, the Travel and Events segment and also operated Cypress Re in the corporate and other segment. In 2009, the Company announced its intention to sell all non-Windstar assets, including the Marine Group, Travel and Events and Cypress Re. As of March 31, 2009, the Company determined that the Marine Group and Cypress Re qualified for assets “held-for-sale” treatment under the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 360-10, Property, Plant and Equipment. In May 2009, the Company sold the Marine Group and in September 2009 the Company exited the re-insurance business. In December of 2009 we completed the wind down of the residual operations of the Travel and Events segment. The operations of Marine Group, Travel and Events and Cypress Re are shown as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. The assets and liabilities of Cypress Re, Travel and Events and the Marine Group are classified as “held for sale” in the accompanying financial statements. See Note 2 Discontinued Operations. ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements - Discontinued Operations provides that if the discontinued operations had been a reportable segment, the Company is not required to disclose information about the discontinued segment as required by FASB ASC 280, Segment Reporting. Certain of the Majestic American Line assets qualified as assets “held for sale” as of December 31, 2009 and have been classified accordingly in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
During 2009, the Company operated in the cruise and corporate and other business segments:
•Cruise - This segment operates the Windstar Cruises brand. The Company purchased Windstar Cruises in 2007, an international-flagged small luxury ship cruise line that operates a three-ship fleet that includes the 312-passenger Wind Surf, 148-passenger Wind Spirit, and 148-passenger Wind Star. The Company’s 2009 Windstar Cruises schedule includes destinations in the Greek Isles, Caribbean Islands, the Americas, and Costa Rica. Windstar Cruises sails on the Mediterranean, the Adriatic, the Atlantic and the Panama Canal.
•The Company formerly operated Majestic America Line within the cruise segment. Majestic American Line was a domestic provider of overnight passenger cruises along inland rivers and coastal waterways of North America. In April 2008, the Company announced its intention to sell the vessels of the Majestic America Line. The Company originally owned seven U.S.-flagged cruise ships. On August 15, 2008 and on November 21, 2008, the Company surrendered possession of the Empress of the North and American Queen®, respectively, to the United States through the Department of Transportation Maritime Administration (“MARAD”). In November 2009 the Company sold the Queen of the West. As of December 31, 2009, two of the remaining four vessels of the Majestic America Line qualified for “held-for-sale” classification.
•Corporate and other - This segment consists of general corporate assets and liabilities (primarily cash, cash equivalents and long-term debt), and other activities that are not directly related to our cruise operating segment.
Liquidity
As of December 31, 2009, we held cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash of $2.6 million and $11.3 million respectively and had a working capital deficit of $5.0 million.
In 2010, as in other years, we will incur capital expenditures and costs for improvements required in the maintenance of our ships. In 2010, planned capital expenditures and dry-dock projects are expected to be approximately $7.0 million for our vessels. We have a scheduled dry-dock in April 2010 for the Wind Sprit where we expect to incur $4.5 million in refurbishments. We also have a scheduled drydock project for the Wind Star in November 2010 where we expect to incur $2.5 million in refurbishments.
In 2009, the Company restructured a significant portion of the Convertible Notes in the Exchange Offer. In March 2010, the Company obtained a $15.0 million Credit Facility (Note 18) to be used to fund dry-dock costs for two Windstar vessels as well as working capital and other corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. . In addition to reducing outstanding indebtedness and obtaining the Credit Facility, the Company has restructured its core business activities so as to allow it to dedicate liquidity resources to the operations and growth of Windstar Cruises.
We believe that the operating cash flows, financing cash flows, and investing cash flows projected for 2010, and the cash and cash equivalents of $2.6 million at December 31, 2009, and our Credit Facility will be sufficient to fund ongoing operations through 2010. We expect our business improvement initiatives and other actions will improve our operating income and cash flow results. However, the timing and extent of success for these strategies cannot be predicted with any level of certainty. If we are unable to meet our cash flow projections in 2010, we may need to seek additional sources of funding. If the pricing or terms for any new financing do not meet our expectations, we may be required to choose between completion of the financing on such unfavorable terms or not completing the financing. If sources of capital are unavailable, or are available only on a limited basis or under unacceptable terms, then we could be required to substantially reduce operating, marketing, general and administrative costs related to our continuing operations.
Restatement of Previously Reported Consolidated Financial Statements
As previously reported, the Company has restated its consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008. The restatement relates to an error in the Company’s interpretation and application of ASC 360 and Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) No. 104 to the $7.0 million loss that resulted from the disposal of two Majestic vessels as described in Note 12. The loss on the disposal of these assets was previously reported as outside of operating expenses in other income and expense within the consolidated statement of operations. Following the restatement, the $7.0 million loss is included within costs and operating expenses within operating loss from continuing operations. This restatement results in no change in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008.
Basis of Presentation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation.
Estimates
The preparation of these consolidated financial statements in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in these consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications of prior year amounts have been made to conform to the current year presentation. The reclassifications consist primarily of amounts related to discontinued operations presentation, assets held for sale classification, and a $2.6 million reclassification of hotel and beverage service fees to Onboard and other cruise
revenue from cruise operating expenses. These reclassifications had no impact on net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008.
In addition, all prior period information has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the impact of the adoption of FASB ASC 470-20-25, Debt with Conversion Options on January 1, 2009.
Credit Risk
The majority of the Company’s revenues are collected in advance of the cruise departure and therefore, the Company has a minimum credit risk associated with passenger ticket revenues.
Fair Value Measurements
The Company measures fair value using a set of standardized procedures that are outlined herein for all financial assets and liabilities which are required to be measured at fair value. When available, the Company utilizes quoted market prices from an independent third party source to determine fair value and classifies such items in Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. In some instances where a market price may be available, but in an inactive or over-the-counter market where significant fluctuations in pricing could occur, the Company would consistently choose the dealer (market maker) pricing estimate and classify the financial asset or liability in Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
If quoted market prices or inputs are not available, fair value measurements are based upon methodologies that utilize current market or independently sourced market inputs. Items valued using such internally-generated valuation techniques are classified according to the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. As a result, a financial asset or liability could be classified in either Level 2 or 3 in the fair value hierarchy even though there may be some significant inputs that are readily observable.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company invests cash in excess of operating requirements in short-term time deposits, money market instruments, government mutual bond funds and other investments. Securities with remaining maturities of three months or less are classified as cash equivalents.
Restricted Cash
The Company’s restricted cash consisted of (in thousands):
The Company’s cruise passenger deposits are primarily received through credit card transactions. The Company had restricted cash held by banks in cash equivalents in order to secure its processing of these passenger deposits through credit cards. The restricted amounts were negotiated between the Company and the bank based on a percentage of the expected volume of future credit card transactions within a standard twelve-month period. Additionally, the Company’s restricted cash included certificates of deposit that secured letters of credit related to the reinsurance business segment. See Note 2, Discontinued Operations. At December 31, 2009 the Company had $0.2 million of restricted cash held in escrow following the sale of the Queen of the West. The cash held in escrow was released to the Company in February 2010.
Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Comprehensive income (loss) refers to the aggregate of net income (loss) and certain other revenues, expenses, gains and losses recorded directly as adjustments to stockholders’ equity, net of tax.
Property, Vessels and Equipment
Property, vessels and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. The Company expenses the cost of maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the lives of the respective assets when incurred. Major additions and betterments are capitalized. The Company’s ships are capitalized and depreciated using the straight-line method over the expected useful life ranging up to 30 years, net of a residual value that generally is approximately 15%. Ship replacement parts are capitalized and depreciated upon being placed in service. Office equipment is capitalized and depreciated using the straight-line method over the expected useful life of the equipment, ranging up to 10 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the lesser of the expected useful life of the improvement or the term of the related lease.
The Company performs reviews for the impairment of property, vessels and equipment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Assessment of possible impairment is based on our ability to recover the carrying value of our asset based on our estimate of its undiscounted future cash flows. If these estimated undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset, an impairment charge is recognized for the excess, if any, of the asset’s carrying value over its estimated fair value. Judgments and estimates made related to property, vessels and equipment are affected by factors such as economic conditions, changes in resale values and changes in operating performance. This process requires the use of estimates and assumptions, which are subject to a high degree of judgment. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
Drydocking
The Company capitalizes drydocking costs as incurred and amortizes such costs over the period to the next scheduled drydock and believes that the deferral method provides better matching of revenues and expenses. Drydocking costs are included in prepaid costs and other current assets and in long-term assets in the accompanying balance sheet and are amortized over the cruising season between scheduled drydockings.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment at least annually or sooner whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that they may be impaired. The Company’s management evaluates recoverability using both subjective and objective factors. Subjective factors include the evaluation of industry and product trends and the Company’s strategic focus. Objective factors include observable inputs such as third party appraisals and management’s estimates of projected future earnings and cash flows. The Company uses a discounted cash flow model to estimate the fair value of each of its reporting units when it tests goodwill for impairment. Assumptions used include growth rates for revenues and expenses, investment yields on deposits, any future capital expenditure requirements and appropriate discount rates. The Company established reporting units based on its current reporting structure. For purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, goodwill has been allocated to reporting units to the extent it related to each reporting unit. Intangible assets with finite lives are tested for impairment using an undiscounted cash flow model.
Foreign Currency Transactions
Results of operations have been translated using the average rates prevailing throughout the year. Translation gains or losses resulting from the changes in the exchange rates from year-to-year are accumulated in a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Gains or losses resulting from the settlement of foreign currency transactions are included on the statement of operations in continuing operations if related to Windstar Cruises and in loss from discontinued operations if related to the Marine Group.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the service fee is fixed or determinable, collectability is reasonably assured and delivery has occurred.
Passenger Ticket Revenue and Onboard and Other Cruise Revenues
The Company records passenger ticket revenue net of applicable discounts and recognizes passenger ticket revenue and related costs of revenue when the cruise is completed. The Company generally receives from its customers a partially refundable deposit within one week of booking a tour, with the balance typically remitted 90 days prior to the departure date. If customers cancel their trip, the nonrefundable portion of their deposit is recognized as revenue on the date of cancellation. Passenger revenue representing travel insurance purchased at the time of reservation is recognized upon the completion of the cruise or passenger cancellation, whichever is earlier and the Company’s obligation has been met. Onboard and other cruise revenue consisting of beverage and souvenir sales and optional shore excursions are deferred and recognized as revenue when the cruise is completed.
Selling and Tour Promotion Expenses
Selling and tour promotion costs are expensed as incurred.
Income Taxes
The Company uses an asset and liability approach when accounting for income taxes that requires an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the net deferred domestic tax asset is subject to a 100% valuation allowance.
Earnings (Loss) Per Share
Basic earnings (loss) per share for continuing operations, discontinued operations and total is computed by dividing net income (loss) for each of these categories by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed by increasing the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding by the additional common shares that would have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued. The dilutive effect of options outstanding, if any, is reflected in diluted earnings (loss) per share by application of the treasury stock method.
Accounting for Share-Based Compensation Plans
The Company has certain share-based employee compensation plans, which are more fully described in Note 13, “Stock Plans.” The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton formula to estimate the fair value of stock options granted to employees.
The Company has recorded compensation expense of ($0.3) million and $1.5 million which is classified as general and administrative expenses related to employee stock options and restricted stock, respectively, for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.
As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, there was $0.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively, of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock options and non-vested restricted stock granted under the Company’s plans expected in future years through 2013. This expected cost does not include the impact of any future stock-based compensation awards.
The Company granted awards of restricted stock to each outside member of the Board of Directors in November 2009. The restricted stock awards vest in three equal installments on each anniversary date of the award through 2012. No stock options were granted during 2009 and 2008.
Expected volatility is based on historical volatilities. The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected option life assumed at the date of grant. The expected term is calculated based on historical experience and represents the time period options actually remain outstanding. The Company estimated forfeitures based on historical pre-vesting forfeitures and will revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The estimated fair values of the financial instruments as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows (in thousands):
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of financial instrument for which it is practicable to estimate that value. Potential income tax ramifications related to the realization of unrealized gains and losses that would be incurred in an actual sale and/or settlement have not been taken into consideration.
Cash and Cash Equivalents - The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value due to the liquid nature of the cash investments.
Restricted Cash - The fair value of the Company’s restricted cash is based on the cash equivalents held by banks as collateral for customer credit card deposits, an escrow deposit and certificate of deposit in which the funds are invested.
Debt - The carrying value of the Convertible Notes approximate fair value since they are estimates based on rates currently prevailing for similar instruments of similar maturities. The fair value of the Senior Notes is based on recent marketplace transactions.
Business Segments
The Company reports segment data based on the “management” approach, which designates the internal reporting used by management for making operating decisions and assessing performance as the source of the Company’s reportable segments.
Subsequent Events
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the filing date of this annual report on Form 10K See Note 18 for discussion of the Credit Facility executed by the Company in March 2010.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 168, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. SFAS No. 168, which is incorporated in ASC Topic 105, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, identifies the ASC as the authoritative source of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Rules and interpretive releases of the SEC under federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants. The Company adopted SFAS No. 168 during the third quarter of 2009 and includes references to the ASC within our consolidated financial statements.
On May 9, 2008, the FASB issued FASB ASC 470-20-25, Debt with Conversion Options. ASC 470-20-25 requires an issuer of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash, and any other convertible instruments that require or permit settlement in any combination of cash and shares at the issuer’s option, to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. The ASC is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and does not permit early application. However, the transition guidance requires retrospective application to all periods presented, and does not grandfather existing instruments. Accordingly, retrospective application has been reflected in the accompanying financial statements. The Company adopted ASC 470-20-25 on January 1, 2009 and the adoption impacted historical accounting for the Company’s 3.75% Convertible Notes resulting in a $2.2 million increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2008. The adoption also resulted in a $12.1 million increase in additional paid-in capital, an $8.4 million net reduction in long-term convertible notes, a $25,000 increase in prepaid assets, a $3.3 million increase in deferred tax liabilities, a $3.3 million decrease in deferred tax valuation allowance, and a $3.7 million increase in accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2009. The impact on diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2008 was an increase in a loss per share of $0.20.
Seasonality
Our business is seasonal. We recognize cruise-related revenues at the completion of the cruise. As a result, a majority of our operating results will be recognized in the third quarter of each fiscal year, which coincides with the cruising season and highest occupancy rates. Our future annual results could be adversely affected if our revenue were to be substantially below seasonal norms during any quarter, particularly the third quarter of any fiscal year.
2. Discontinued Operations and Assets held-for-Sale
On February 11, 2009, the Company announced its plans to sell the Company’s non-Windstar Cruise assets including Travel and Events, Marine Group, Cypress Re and Majestic America Line divisions. As of December 31, 2009, the remaining assets and liabilities of certain of the Majestic America Line assets and liabilities did not qualify for the “held for sale” treatment or discontinued operations and therefore the results of operations for Majestic American Line are included in continuing operations.
As of January 1, 2009, the assets and liabilities of Marine Group and Cypress Re qualified for “held for sale” treatment. On May 13, 2009, the Marine Group was sold and in September 2009, the Company executed an agreement with a third party whereby all re-insurance assets were assigned and related liabilities assumed. The Company exited the re-insurance business effective with the agreement. As of December 31, 2009, Travel and Events qualified as a discontinued operation as the Company completed its wind down activities and ceased operations of the segment during the fourth quarter of 2009. As a result, the assets and liabilities of Travel and Events are also classified as held for sale in the accompanying financial statements.
The results of operations of these three divisions are presented as discontinued operations. Summarized operating results for discontinued operations are as follows (in thousands):
In 2009 certain Majestic American Line vessels qualified for classification as assets held for sale due to the probability of the asset disposal within a twelve month period and accordingly, the carrying value of these assets are also presented as assets held for sale as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The vessels that met the criteria for assets held-for-sale did not operate in 2009 or 2008.
The assets and liabilities of these three divisions as well as the Majestic vessels are summarized as follows (in thousands):
At December 31, 2008 the Company had $6.3 million in goodwill related to the Travel and Events segment. During 2009 the Company relieved $3.6 million in the sale of the Housing division and recorded an impairment for the remaining amount of $2.7 million.
3. Impairment
Loss on Impairment and Fair Value Measurements
Due to a combination of factors, including the global economic environment and the restructuring of the Company’s Convertible Notes (see Note 8), the Company believed that impairments to the carrying value may have occurred to its long-lived assets requiring an impairment analysis.
As a result of this determination, the Company conducted an impairment analysis of its long-lived assets including its Windstar Cruises and Majestic America Lines assets.
The Company’s impairment analysis of the Windstar Cruises long-lived vessel assets included observable and unobservable inputs to estimate the fair value under the market approach and income approach valuation techniques. The Company’s market approach to estimate the fair value of Windstar Cruise assets was based on observable inputs including third party appraisal reports, sales of other vessels and estimated replacement value. The Company’s income approach to estimate the fair value of Windstar Cruises assets included a discounted cash flow model based on unobservable inputs and a range of future probabilities, including fluctuations in operating costs. During the third quarter the Company evaluated all fair value inputs and concluded that an impairment of $27.7 million was required to reduce the carrying value of certain Windstar long-lived assets to the Company’s estimate of fair value. The impairment is recorded in the results from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009.
In performing its analysis of the fair value of its intangible Windstar Cruises trademark, the Company based its estimates of fair value on an income methodology using a discounted cash flow valuation model under a relief from royalty methodology. The relief from royalty model incorporates the Company’s estimates of the royalty rate that a market participant would assume, projections of future revenues and the Company’s judgment regarding the applicable discount rates used to discount those estimated cash flows. The analysis resulted in a $1.8 million impairment of the Company’s Windstar Cruises trademark during the fourth quarter of 2009. Given that certain of these inputs are unobservable, management assessed this to be a level 3 measurement within the hierarchy.
In performing its evaluation of the fair value of Majestic America Line assets, the Company considered a variety of inputs, including the external valuations of certain Majestic America Line vessels, its internal expertise, as well as sales discussions with interested buyers and the overall global economy and credit markets. The Company’s impairment analysis for its Majestic America Line fleet included observable and unobservable inputs to estimate fair value, including industry trends and current market information learned during the Company’s discussions to sell the vessels. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company determined that the carrying values of the Majestic America vessels exceeded fair value. The total impairment charge recorded in the results from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 for the Majestic American Line assets is $21.8 million.
On April 16, 2009 the Company sold the majority of the assets of the housing portion of the Travel and Events segment. The Company received $0.5 million cash at closing and in conjunction with the sale, the buyer assumed approximately $5.5 million in liabilities related to the housing portion of Travel and Events. Based on the sales consideration received and the carrying value of the assets and liabilities related to housing, the Company recorded impairment to goodwill of approximately $2.7 million which is included in loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2009.
On May 13, 2009 the Company sold the stock of the Marine Group for $5 million cash, less the division’s cash on hand and selling expenses for $2.9 million of net cash proceeds. Based on the sales consideration received and the carrying value of the Marine Group, the Company recorded a loss on the sale of approximately $5.0 million, which is included in loss from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2009.
The Company recorded a loss of $1.8 million in the disposition of Cypress Re whereby the Company assigned the assets and liabilities of Cypress Re to a third party, allowing the Company to exit the business. Because the third party assumed the insurance related liabilities, the Company was allowed to cancel the majority of the letters of credit previously required. As a result of the wind down of programs and the exit of the business, the underlying cash collateral of $5.9 million was released to the Company during 2009. In addition to the assignment agreement, the Company also entered into a profit sharing agreement with the third party that allows the Company to participate in up to 50% of net profit distributions minus losses and expenses as the remaining programs wind down. Although there is a potential for additional cash distributions over the next several years, the profit distribution is contingent on the profitability of the insurance program and is subject to regulatory approval. As of December 31, 2009, the estimate of potential profit distributions is estimated at $0.8 million.
The Company accounts for certain assets and liabilities at fair value. The hierarchy below lists three levels of fair value based on the extent to which inputs used in measuring fair value are observable in the market. The Company categorizes each of its fair value measurements in one of these three levels based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. These levels are:
Level 1: Observable inputs (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities;
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are either directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability;
Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability, including situations where there is little, if any, market activity or data for the asset or liability.
The following table represents the fair value hierarchy for assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for the year ended December 31, 2009 (in thousands):
4. Accounts and Other Receivables
Accounts receivable at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands) consisted of:
5. Inventory
The Company maintains inventories of fuel, supplies, souvenirs and food and beverage products. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, using weighted average costs.
The components of inventory as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 are as follows (in thousands):
6. Property, Vessels and Equipment
Property, vessels and equipment consisted of the following at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
In 2008, the Company returned the Empress of the North and the American Queen® to MARAD and recorded a loss of $34.2 million and $38.3 million, respectively, in long lived assets. These losses were offset by the elimination of indebtedness relating to the vessels of $37.3 million and $23.3 million, respectively, resulting in a net loss of $7.0 million. See Note 8.
Depreciation and amortization expense related to property, vessels and equipment was $9.9 million and $13.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
7. Other Intangible Assets
Other intangible assets consisted of the following at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
The Windstar trade name is an indefinite lived asset and subject to annual impairment assessment.
8. Long term Obligations
Long-term obligations as of December 31, 2009and 2008 were as follows (in thousands):
At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s cash-secured revolving credit facility with a bank in the amount of $70,000 and $6.0 million, respectively, had no balances outstanding at the end of each of the respective years.
Guaranteed Principal Payment
In conjunction with the acquisition of the Majestic America Line assets of the Delta Queen®, the Company assumed a fixed-rate, 6.5% debt payable through 2020 guaranteed by MARAD and secured by a mortgage on the American Queen®. On November 15, 2008, the Company returned the American Queen® to MARAD’s custodial control. The Company had guaranteed principal payments on the debt assumed. At December 31, 2009 the Company had paid all guaranteed principal payments, except for $948,000.
3.75% Convertible Notes
On April 3, 2007, the Company closed the sale of $97.0 million of 3.75% Convertible Notes (“Convertible Notes”), due 2027, to Thomas Weisel Partners LLC (“Initial Purchaser”), in a private offering, pursuant to a purchase agreement dated March 28, 2007. A portion of the proceeds from the sale of the Convertible Notes was used to retire $60 million in seller financing incurred in connection with the acquisition of Windstar Cruises. The remaining proceeds were to be used for general corporate purposes and future growth of the Company.
The Company adopted FASB ASC 470-20-25, Debt with Conversion Options, to account for the Convertible Notes in January 2009. In accordance with ASC 470-20-25 the Company measured the fair value of the liability component as $84.9 million and allocated the remaining cash proceeds of $12.1 million to an equity component. A discount rate of 6.875% was used to determine the debt component based on assumed market conditions and the Company’s financial position at the time of debt placement. The adoption of ASC 470-20-25 increases the effective interest rate of the Convertible Notes to 6.875%.
The Convertible Notes are convertible into shares of the Company’s common stock at an initial conversion rate of 17.8763 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes (which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $55.94 per share), subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and on October 15 in each year, commencing October 15, 2007. The Company may redeem the Convertible Notes in whole or in part after April 15, 2012. Holders of the Convertible Notes may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the Convertible Notes, in cash, on April 15, 2012, April 15, 2017 and April 15, 2022 or upon the occurrence of specified fundamental changes (as defined in the purchase agreement dated March 28, 2007).
In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, the Initial Purchaser withheld $2.9 million in fees from the proceeds of the offering which amount is classified as debt discount and amortized using the effective interest rate method over a five-year period, the earliest term when the note holders have an option to require the Company to redeem the Convertible Notes. The unamortized debt discount is included as a component of long-term debt.
On September 25, 2009, the Company launched an exchange offer (the “Exchange Offer”) to exchange each $1,000 principal amount of the outstanding Convertible Notes for:
On November 13, 2009, the Company completed the Exchange Offer for the Company’s Convertible Notes. The stockholders of the Company approved the issuance of the shares of common stock in the Exchange Offer at a special stockholder meeting held on November 12, 2009. Approximately $65.8 million aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes were validly tendered and accepted. In exchange for the tendered Convertible Notes, the Company issued $18.0 million aggregate principal amount of new 10% Senior Secured Notes due January 2012 and approximately 15.2 million shares of its common stock. Approximately $31.2 million aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes remain outstanding.
10% Senior Secured Notes
The Company recorded the cancellation of the Convertible Notes and issuance of the Senior Secured Notes and common shares as a troubled debt restructuring under ASC 470-60, Troubled Debt Restructuring by Debtors. ASC 470-60 required the Company to reduce the carrying amount of the tendered Convertible Notes by the value of the common stock and the future cash payments of the Senior Secured Notes issued in the Exchange Offer. The Company valued the 15.2 million common shares at $0.53 or $8.0 million which was the closing price of the stock on the day the Exchange Offer was consummated. The future cash payment obligations of the Senior Secured Notes are $21.9 million (principal of $18.0 million and future interest payments of $3.9 million). ASC 470-60 also requires that the Senior Secured Notes by be recorded as the total of future cash payments. The excess of the carrying value of the Convertible Notes tendered and unpaid interest of $1.4 million over the value of the common stock and the future cash payments of the Senior Notes was $31.9 million, which was reduced by the unamortized deferred financed costs and debt issue costs of $2.4 million incurred in 2009, resulting in a gain of $29.5 million. The gain on the debt restructure is reflected as other income and included in the results of continuing operations. Interest on the Senior Secured Notes is payable in kind or in cash, semiannually, at the Company’s option. In accordance with of ASC 470-60, the Company will not recognize interest expense related to the Senior Secured Notes in future periods as this cost is reflected in the gain at the time of the restructure.
Subsequent to year end, the Company executed a new Credit Facility that contains various restrictive and financial covenants, including a requirement that the Company achieve certain minimum EBITDA levels and a limitation on capital expenditures (Note 18). There are also restrictions regarding the use of the proceeds under the Credit Facility. If the Company fails to comply with these covenants the Company could default under the Credit Facility. A default under the Credit Facility could result in a default under the Senior Secured Notes or a cross-default under the Convertible Notes and/or other indebtedness, permitting the holders of any such indebtedness to accelerate such indebtedness.
Loans Secured by Ship Mortgages
In conjunction with the acquisition of American West, the Company assumed $41.5 million in fixed-rate, 4.63% debt payable through 2028 and guaranteed by the United States Government through MARAD under Title XI, Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended, and was secured by a First Preferred Ship Mortgage on the Empress of the North. Annual principal payments of $1.8 million plus accrued interest were required through July 18, 2028. EN Boat, a subsidiary of the Company and owner of the Empress of the North, was unable to make its semi-annual payment on the note due July 17, 2008 and was unable to cure the payment default within the 30 day cure period. On August 15, 2008, the Company returned the Empress of the North to MARAD’s custodial control following its last sailing on August 9, 2008. As a result of the disposal of the Empress of the North, the Company wrote off $34.2 million in assets (primarily vessels) and $37.3 million in liabilities (primarily loans payable) and recorded a $3.1 million gain on disposal for the year ended December 31, 2008. The default under the note had a limited financial impact because recourse on the default is limited to the Empress of the North.
In conjunction with the acquisition of the cruise-related assets of Delta Queen®, the Company assumed $35.0 million of fixed-rate, 6.5% debt payable through 2020 and guaranteed by MARAD under Title XI, Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended, and secured by a First Preferred Ship Mortgage on the American Queen®. Semi-annual principal payments accumulating to $2.4 million annually plus accrued interest were required through June 2020.
AQ Boat, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company and owner of the American Queen®, was unable to make its semiannual principal payments on the note. On November 15, 2008, the Company returned the American Queen® to MARAD’s custodial control following its last sailing in November 2008. Under the Trust Indenture, the Company, as ultimate parent of AQ Boat, LLC, had guaranteed principal payments on the debt assumed by AQ Boat, LLC and the Company was required to make principal payments on the debt or additional note amounting to $7.3 million by February 23, 2009, in the event of default by AQ Boat, LLC. Through November 15, 2008, AQ Boat, LLC had paid $6.3 million towards principal payments. At December 31, 2008, the Company accrued the remaining guaranteed principal payment of $0.9 million. As a result of the disposal of the American Queen®, the Company wrote off $38.3 million in assets (primarily vessels) and $28.3 million in liabilities (primarily loans payable) and recorded a $10.0 million loss on disposal for the year ended December 31, 2008. The default under the note had a limited financial impact because recourse on the default is limited to the American Queen®.
Principal payments on the Company’s debt are scheduled to be paid as follows (in thousands):
9. Other Income (expense), net
Other income (expense), net includes the following at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in thousands):
10. Income Taxes
Pretax income (loss) from continuing operations summarized by region is as follows (in thousands):
The income tax provision (benefit) included in the statements of continuing operations is as follows (in thousands):
The reconciliation of U.S. statutory federal income tax expense to income tax provision (benefit) on income (loss) before income taxes is as follows (in thousands):
Components of the net deferred tax assets and liabilities for continuing operations are as follows (in thousands):
Components of the net deferred tax assets and liabilities for discontinued operations are as follows (in thousands):
At December 31, 2009, the Company has federal, state and foreign net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of $42.2 million, $41.7 million and, $0, respectively. The federal and state NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Utilization of these losses is subject to an annual limitation due to ownership change constraints set forth in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and similar state tax provisions.
The Company has recorded valuation allowances of $19.5 million and $12.8 million for continuing operations at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, due to uncertainty related to the future utilization of certain deferred tax assets. In 2009, the Company increased its valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets. Based on all available positive and negative evidence at December 31, 2009, the Company had concluded that the realizability of the net domestic deferred tax assets does not meet the more likely than not threshold under ASC 740.
Pretax earnings of a foreign subsidiary or affiliate are subject to U.S. taxation when effectively repatriated. U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes were not provided on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Company intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in its foreign subsidiaries. It is not practical to determine the
amount of undistributed earnings or income tax payable in the event the Company repatriated all undistributed foreign earnings. However, if these earnings were distributed to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise, the Company would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes, offset by an adjustment for foreign tax credits.
The following table summarizes the changes to unrecognized tax benefits for the year ended December 31, 2009:
The Company expects a $20,000 decrease to its unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months due to the lapse of applicable statute of limitations.
The Company is subject to United States federal income tax as well as income tax of multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to United States federal income tax examinations for years before 2006; state and local income tax examinations before 2005; and foreign income tax examinations before 2005.
Currently the Company is not under Internal Revenue Service, state, local or foreign jurisdiction tax examinations.
The Company’s continuing practice is to recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within its global operations in its provision for income taxes. During 2009, an adjustment of $40,000 was made to interest and penalties due to the lapse of applicable statute of limitations. To the extent interest and penalties are not assessed with respect to the uncertain tax positions, amounts accrued will be reduced and $40,000 will be reflected as a reduction of the overall income tax provision.
The Company experienced an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382(g) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, during the fourth quarter of 2009. The ownership change has and will continue to subject the Company’s net operating loss carryforwards to an annual limitation, which will significantly restrict its ability to use them to offset taxable income in periods following the ownership change. In general, the annual use limitation equals the aggregate value of the Company’s common stock at the time of the ownership change multiplied by a specified tax-exempt interest rate. The date of ownership change and the occurrence of more than one ownership change can significantly impact the amount of the annual limitation. The Company has not yet finalized the determination of the annual limitation.
Due to the Exchange Offer, the Company realized income from cancellation of the debt. The Company was insolvent immediately prior to the cancellation of debt. The discharge income is excluded from taxable income to the extent of the Company’s insolvency. However, to the extent of the excluded income, the Company is required to reduce its tax attributes. The Company estimates that the excluded income will approximate $14 million.
11. Commitments and Contingencies
Leases
The Company leases office facilities and office equipment under non-cancelable operating leases. Certain of the Company’s leases have escalation clauses. The Company’s obligations under non-cancelable lease commitments are as follows (in thousands):
Total rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $0.8 million and $1.0 million, respectively.
The Company entered into an agreement to sublease office facilities in Newport Beach, California to a related party. Sublease rental income totaled $60,000 for each of the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.
Letters of Credit
In the ordinary course of business the Company, from time to time entered into letters of credit related to its reinsurance business segment (now reflected in discontinued operations) and for its travel and events related programs with airlines or other travel providers (now reflected in discontinued operations). As of December 31, 2008, the Company had issued $5.9 million in letters of credit related to reinsurance property and casualty insurance programs. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had also issued $0.1 million in a letter of credit related to travel and event business operations which expired in 2009. The Company has a $70,000 line of credit to support the remaining outstanding letter of credit associated with the reinsurance business which is secured by a certificate of deposit in the same amount and is classified as restricted cash as of December 31, 2009.
In connection with the exit of the reinsurance business of Cypress Re, the Company also entered into a profit sharing agreement with the third party that allows the Company to participate in up to 50% of net profit distributions minus losses and expenses as the remaining programs wind down. Although there is a potential for additional cash distributions over the next several years, the profit distributions are contingent on the underlying insurance program performance and release of the profits are subject to regulatory approval.
General Claims
The Company is subject to claims, suits and complaints, which have arisen in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management and its legal counsel, all matters are without merit or are of such a nature, or involve such amounts as would not have a material effect on the financial position, cash flows or results of operations of the Company.
Surety Bonds
As of December 31, 2009, the Company had no outstanding surety bonds.
Prior to the sale of the Marine Group in May 2009, the Company was required to provide surety bonds to secure its performance under construction contracts and other arrangements. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $16.3 million in surety bonds related to the Marine Group and $8.7 million in surety bonds related to the operations of Majestic American Line.
Ship Incidents
In April 2008, a fire occurred in the engine room of the Queen of the West, while the vessel was cruising between The Dalles and John Day Locks in Oregon. The fire was extinguished with no injuries to guests. The Columbia Queen was brought into service in April, earlier than originally scheduled, in order to accommodate guests while the Queen of the West was undergoing repairs. The incident sailing and eight additional sailings were cancelled. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company incurred costs related to relocating passengers and crew, vessel repair costs and refund passenger deposits totaling $0.4 million which have been recorded in operations. In addition, the Company lost revenue of $2.4 million as a result of the cancellations of the nine sailings. During the third quarter of 2008, the Company received $0.4 million in insurance recoveries which was recorded as a reduction to the cruise operating expenses.
On March 24, 2006, the Empress of the North ran aground near the Washougal Upper Range on the Columbia River in Washington in order to avoid collision with a tug boat. No passengers or crew were injured during the grounding. The Company filed a claim against the tug boat operator and was awarded $1.1 million as a settlement of the case which amount has been recorded in other income for the year ended December 31, 2008.
During 2009 the Company received a business interruption insurance claim of $1.2 million associated with the 2008 sailing incidents of the Empress of the North and the Queen of the West described above. The claim is reflected as a credit to operating expenses in continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Legal Proceedings
The United States Maritime Administration (“MARAD”) filed a claim in the amount of $300,000 against the Company in the US District court of Oregon seeking settlement of one month’s payment under a charter agreement related to the Empress of the North®, prior to the vessel’s return in 2008, and a claim for amounts paid to third parties, if any, that may qualify under federal debt priority statutes. The Company filed a counter claim against MARAD which seeks repayment from MARAD for inventory on the ship at the time of the return and insurance proceeds related to reimbursement for repairs to the ship funded by the Company. In January 2010, the Company received a proposed settlement offer from the U.S. Department of Justice and in January 2010, the Company’s Board of Directors approved the settlement offer. The terms of the settlement require the Company to make the payment under the charter agreement of $300,000 and accept a final payment from the U.S. government of $50,000, representing reimbursement to the Company for costs previously incurred. The Company will dismiss its claim to receive any insurance proceeds previously retained by the U.S, government. The final settlement agreement and payments are expected to be completed during the second quarter of 2010.
MARAD has also filed a judgment against the Company for the collection of $1.2 million in connection with the acquisition of the American Queen® as discussed in Note 8. Included in current liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 2008 is $948,000 in guaranteed principal payments that we believe is the amount owed to MARAD under this claim. Trial date in this case is scheduled during the second quarter of 2010. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against this claim.
On October 28, 2008, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with HAL Antillen N.V., whereby the Company received on October 31, 2008, approximately $2.6 million related to a dispute that arose from the purchase of Windstar Cruises, which amount has been recorded in other income for the year ended December 31, 2008.
12. Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
On April 16, 2009 the Company sold the majority of the assets of the housing portion of the Travel and Events segment. The Company received $0.5 million cash at closing and in conjunction with the sale, the buyer assumed approximately $5.5 million in liabilities related to the housing portion of Travel and Events.
On May 13, 2009 the Company sold the stock of the Marine Group to a company formed by the Company’s former chief executive officer for $5 million cash, less the division’s cash on hand and selling expenses for $2.9 million of net cash proceeds.
In September 2009, the Company executed an agreement with a third party whereby the assets of Cypress Re were assigned and the liabilities were assumed. The agreement allowed the Company to exit its re-insurance business in September 2009.
In November 2009, the Company sold the Queen of the West to a third party in a substantially all cash sales transaction.
In 2008 the Company recorded an impairment loss of $21.3 million due to the write-down of the assets of the Marine Group. This loss is reflected in loss from discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements. As a result of its determination that there was a more than 50% likelihood that the Marine Group would be sold in the near term, the Company evaluated the ongoing value of the Marine Group long-lived assets and determined that they were impaired. The carrying value of long-lived assets, including goodwill, at December 31, 2008 was $32.3 million. The estimated fair value of the Marine Group was $11.0 million. Fair value was based on indications of interest received early on in the Company’s sale process. The entire carrying value of the long-lived assets, including goodwill of $2.9 million, was written down to zero at December 31, 2008. The remaining excess carrying value of $3.3 million after the write-off of goodwill and intangible assets was allocated to the remaining assets held for sale.
EN Boat, a subsidiary of the Company and owner of the Empress of the North, was unable to make its semi-annual payment on the note due July 17, 2008 and was unable to cure the payment default within the 30 day cure period. On August 15, 2008, the Company returned the Empress of the North to MARAD’s custodial control. As a result of the disposal of the Empress of the North, the Company wrote off $34.2 million in assets (primarily vessels) and $37.3 million in liabilities (primarily loans payable) and recorded a $3.1 million in gain on disposal for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. See Legal proceedings, Note 11.
AQ Boat, LLC, a subsidiary of the Company and owner of the American Queen, surrendered the American Queen to MARAD’s custodial control on November 15, 2008. As a result of the disposal of the American Queen, the Company wrote off $38.3 million in assets (primarily vessels) and $28.3 million in liabilities (primarily loans payable) and recorded a $10.0 million in loss on disposal for the quarter ended December 31, 2008. The Company, as the ultimate parent of AQ Boat, LLC, had guaranteed principal and interest payments on the debt assumed by AQ Boat, LLC. The Company’s limited guarantee required it to make principal payments on the debt or additional note amounting to approximately $7.3 million by February 23, 2009, in the event of default by AQ Boat, LLC. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008 respectively, AQ Boat LLC had made $6.3 million in payments and the Company has accrued the remaining guaranteed payment of $0.9 million.
13. Stock Plans
The Company adopted the 1995 Equity Participation Plan (the “1995 Plan”) during 1995 and amended and restated the 1995 Plan in 1998, 1999 and 2002. In 2005, the Company adopted the 2005 Incentive Award Plan (the “2005 Plan”) and amended and restated the 2005 Plan in 2007. Both the 1995 Plan and the 2005 Plan provide for the grant of stock options, awards of restricted stock, performance or other awards or stock appreciation rights to directors, employees and consultants of the Company. The maximum number of shares which may be awarded under the 1995 Plan is 2,200,000 shares. The maximum number of shares which may be awarded under the 2005 Plan is 1,200,000 shares. Under the terms of both the 1995 Plan and the 2005 Plan, options to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock are granted at a price set by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, not
to be less than the par value of a share of common stock and if granted as performance-based compensation or as incentive stock options, no less than the fair market value of the stock on the date of grant. The Compensation Committee establishes the vesting period of the awards. Vested options may be exercised for a period up to ten years from the grant date, as long as option holders remain employed by the Company. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had 778,961 shares available for grant under its equity option plans.
Stock option transactions are summarized as follows:
No stock options were exercised during 2009. The intrinsic value of stock options represents the difference between the fair market value of the Company’s common stock on the date of exercise and the exercise price of each option. Based on the closing price of our common stock of $0.59 on December 31, 2009, there is no pretax intrinsic value for the outstanding options or for exercisable options at December 31, 2009.
The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding and exercisable as of December 31, 2009:
In November 2009, the Company granted restricted stock awards to the outside members of the board of directors aggregating 481,816 shares, at $0.49 per share, representing the closing price of the shares on the date of grant. The restricted stock vests in three equal installments, beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. In 2008, the Company granted restricted stock awards to certain members of senior management aggregating 200,000 shares at $1.25 per share fully vesting on the second anniversary of the date of grant or termination of employment without cause and 250,000 shares $0.79 per share fully vesting on the first anniversary of the date of grant. Of the 2008 restricted stock grants, 250,000 were forfeited and 200,000 were exercised which resulted in 131,400 net shares of the Company common stock being issued during 2009. The per share prices of the restricted stock awards represent the closing price of the shares on the dates of grant. The Company recorded compensation expense of $(0.6) million and $0.7 million related to the restricted stock grants for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The 2009 reduction in expense is due to forfeitures.
14. Employee Benefit Plan
The Company has a 401(k) Profit-Sharing Plan (the “401(k) Plan”) that employees are eligible to participate in upon three months of service and 21 years of age. Employees may contribute up to 92% of their salary, subject to the maximum contribution allowed by the Internal Revenue Service. The Company’s matching contribution is discretionary based upon approval by management. Employees are 100% vested in their contributions and vest in Company matching contributions equally over four years. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company contributed $81,068 and $71,000, respectively, to the 401(k) Plan.
15. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
The table below details the components of the accumulated other comprehensive income (in thousands):
16. Earnings (Loss) Per Share
Basic earnings (loss) per share (EPS) from continuing operations, discontinued operations and total is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS includes the effect of any potential shares outstanding, which for the Company consists of dilutive stock options and shares issuable under the Convertible Notes. The dilutive effect of stock options is calculated using the treasury stock method with an offset from expected proceeds upon exercise of the stock options and unrecognized compensation expense. The dilutive effect of the Convertible Notes is calculated by adding back interest expense and amortization of offering costs, net of taxes, which would not have been incurred assuming conversion. Diluted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 do not include the dilutive effect of conversion of the Convertible Notes into the Company’s common shares since it would be anti-dilutive.
The table below details the components of the basic and diluted EPS calculations (in thousands, except per share amounts):
At December 31, 2009 there were 7,000 common shares issuable under stock options where the exercise price exceeded the Company’s average common stock price of $0.51. At December 31, 2008 there were 1,028,292 common shares issuable under stock options where the exercise price exceeded the Company’s average common stock price of $5.06. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the effects of the common stock equivalent shares have been excluded from the calculation of diluted loss per share because they are anti-dilutive.
17. Business Segments
The Company reports its continuing operations in the following business segments: (i) cruise, which includes the operations of Windstar Cruises and Majestic American Line, and (ii) corporate and other, which consists of general corporate assets and liabilities (primarily cash, cash equivalents and long term debt), and other activities that are not directly related to the Company’s cruise operating segment. The Company reported the Marine Group and Travel and Events as business segments in 2008 as well as included the reinsurance business within the corporate segment. Following the determination that the Marine Group, Travel and Event and reinsurance businesses would be reported as discontinued operations, segment reporting has been updated to exclude the Marine Group, Travel and Events and reinsurance.
Selected financial information related to these segments is as follows (in thousands):
18. Subsequent Events
On March 23, 2010, we established a term loan and revolving facility for working capital purposes (the “Credit Facility”), the terms of which are governed by a Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”), by and among the Company, our subsidiaries (as borrowers and/or guarantors), Whippoorwill Associates, Inc. (and/or one or more funds managed by it) (“Whippoorwill”) and Law Debenture Trust Company of New York, as administrative agent and as collateral agent. The Credit Facility provides for a $5 million revolving credit facility and $10 million term loan to be drawn in two tranches, all of which is to be used to fund dry-dock costs for two Windstar vessels as well as working capital and other corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. On March 23, 2010, the first tranche of the term loan, in the amount of $7.5 million, was funded. Borrowings under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate of 12 percent per annum, are secured (on a first priority basis) by substantially all the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, and mature on January 2, 2012. The Credit Facility provides for payment of a 4% annual facility fee and customary agent fees. The Credit Facility contains various restrictive and financial covenants, including a requirement that the Company achieve certain minimum EBITDA levels and a limitation on capital expenditures. There are also restrictions regarding the use of the proceeds under the Credit Facility.
Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure
None.
Item 9A. Controls and Procedures
Not applicable.
Item 9A(T). Controls and Procedures
We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our Securities Exchange Act of 1934 reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide a reasonable level of assurance of reaching our desired disclosure control objectives.
As required by Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 13a-15(b), we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the quarter covered by this report. Based on the foregoing, management, being our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2009.
The Company experienced changes in its internal control environment during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 related to the transition of certain aspects of Windstar Cruises vessel management from a third party management company to in-house personnel. The Company introduced new procedures and controls during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2009 to record and report transactions related to this change in our operating structure. Management does not believe these changes affect our internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13(a)-15(f) and 15(d)-15(f). Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. However, all internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and reporting.
Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 based on the framework in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on that evaluation, our
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009.
This annual report does not include an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control over financial reporting was not subject to attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit us to provide only management’s report in this annual report.
Item 9B. Other Information
None
PART III
Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance
The information required by Item 10 is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.
Item 11. Executive Compensation
The information required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters
The information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence
The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.
Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services
The information required by Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.
PART IV
Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
The following documents are filed as part of this Report:
(a)(1) Consolidated Financial Statements:
Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and are included beginning on page 31 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(a)(2) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules:
All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
(a)(3) Exhibits:
The exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index are furnished or filed as part of this Form 10-K.
The following documents are filed as part of this Report:
(a)(1) Consolidated Financial Statements:
(a)(2) Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules:
All schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
(a)(3) Exhibits:
The exhibits listed on the accompanying Exhibit Index are furnished or filed as part of this Form 10-K.
EXHIBIT INDEX
*
Filed herewith
+
Management contract or compensatory plan, contract or arrangements required to be filed as an exhibit.
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 31, 2010
POWER OF ATTORNEY
KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Arthur A. Rodney and Mark T. Detillion, or each of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or in his name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments (including post-effective amendments) to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.