ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
GENERAL OVERVIEW
We currently have a working interest in five association contracts in Colombia. Working interest means the operating interest that gives the owner the right to share in production or revenues from the producing venture, subject to all royalties and other burdens and to all costs of exploration, development and operations and all associated risks.
An association contract gives the associates (the parties to the contract) the right and the obligation to explore for oil and gas in the subsurface of specified Colombian properties. Association contracts acquired from Ecopetrol, after receipt of the necessary approval by Colombian governmental authorities as well as the approval of the board of Ecopetrol, are executed by the parties and subsequently recorded as a public deed in Colombia. Therefore, ownership of an association contract is protected by Colombian law.
Our Colombian operations are focused on the Guaduas field. The Guaduas field discovery is within two adjoining association contracts located in the capital state of Cundinamarca in central Colombia, approximately 60 miles northwest of Bogota. The contract areas, which collectively cover approximately 109,000 acres, are defined by the Rio Seco and Dindal association contracts. The village of Guaduas lies within the Dindal and Rio Seco association contract blocks and provides infrastructure for the local economy, which is primarily agrarian in nature. The area is accessible by the main road between Bogota and Medellin and the Colombian Caribbean coast. We are the operator and own a 57.7% working interest in the Guaduas field before Colombian government participation. As the operator of the field, we exercise direct supervision over the drilling or completion of, or production from, the field. The other interest owners are MTV Investments Ltd. Partnership (9.4%) and Sociedad International Petrolera S.A., known as Sipetrol, the international exploration and production subsidiary of the Chilean national oil company (32.9%). As of December 31, 1999, we estimated Seven Seas' net proved reserves attributable to the delineation of 12,640 acres of the Guaduas field were 34.9 MMBbls with a present value (discounted continually over the expected life of the production at 10% per annum) of $311.4 million.
We are also the operator and own a 75% working interest, before Colombian government participation, in the contiguous Montecristo and Rosablanca association contract areas, which cover approximately 692,000 gross acres in the northern Middle Magdalena Basin. The number of gross acres indicates the total number of acres in which we have an interest without regard for the size of that interest. The remaining interest owner is Potomac Energy (Bermuda) Ltd. (25%). As of December 31, 1999, we estimated no proved reserves attributable to these contract areas.
In the Central Llanos basin, 40 miles east of the Cusiana field, we own an 11.875% initial working interest in the 116,795 acre Tapir association contract area, which is operated by Mohave Colombia Corporation (Mohave). Mohave is production testing various zones in the Mateguafa 2 well, which reached a total depth of 8,701 feet on March 13, 2000. We have signed a purchase and sale agreement to sell our 11.875% interest in the Tapir association contract to Solana Petroleum Exploration Colombia Limited for 3,000,000 common shares of Solana Colombia's parent corporation, Solana Petroleum Corp. We are currently waiting for Ecopetrol and the Canadian Venture Exchange to approve the transfer of our interests to Solana. Upon the approvals, Solana will reimburse us for our costs attributable to the Tapir block since August 1, 1999,
including our share of the Mateguafa 2 well costs. As of December 31, 1999, we estimated no proved reserves attributable to this contract area.
COLOMBIAN PROPERTIES
DINDAL AND RIO SECO ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS
Association contracts acquired from Ecopetrol, after receipt of the necessary approval by Colombian governmental authorities as well as the approval of the board of Ecopetrol, are executed by the parties and subsequently recorded as a public deed in Colombia. Therefore, ownership of an association contract is protected by Colombian law.
Ecopetrol issued the Dindal association contract in March 1993 and the Rio Seco association contract in August 1995. The association contracts generally provide for a maximum six-year exploration period followed by a maximum 22-year production period, with partial relinquishments of acreage, excluding commercial fields, required commencing at the end of the sixth year of each contract. The exploration period under the Rio Seco association contract ends in August 2001. We are obligated to drill one more exploratory well before the exploration period of the Rio Seco Association contract ends. The exploration period under the Dindal association contract will be extended to September 23, 2000, provided the associates commit to an additional $2.0 million of exploration work. In September 2000, we may have to relinquish 50% of the contract area or all lands that fall outside a five kilometer buffer zone around the area designated to be the commercial field or negotiate another one year extension by committing to additional exploration work, if applicable.
Under the terms of the association contracts, the associates pay 100% of all exploratory costs. Ecopetrol will receive a royalty equal to 20% of production on behalf of the Colombian government. A royalty interest is an interest in an oil and gas property that entitles the royalty owner to a share of the oil and gas without paying any of the costs of production. After the field is declared commercial by Ecopetrol, it will acquire a 50% interest in the remaining production, bear 50% of the development costs, and reimburse the associates, from Ecopetrol's share of future production, for 50% of the associates' costs of certain direct exploration activities. After Ecopetrol acquires a 50% interest, the interests of the other parties to the contract will be reduced by 50%. All decisions regarding the development of a commercial field will be made by an executive committee consisting of a representative of the associated parties to the contract and Ecopetrol. The members of the executive committee will vote in proportion to their respective interests in the contract. Decisions of the executive committee will be made by the affirmative vote of the holders of over 50% of the interests in the contract.
Under the terms of the Dindal association contract, Ecopetrol's interest in production and costs would increase on a sliding scale after a commercial contract area produces in excess of 60 MMBbls. Such increases occur in 5% increments from 50% to 70% as accumulated production from all fields producing from the Dindal contract area increase in 30 million barrel increments from 60 MMBbls to 150 MMBbls. Recovery of Ecopetrol's 50% share of direct exploration costs is limited to production from successfully producible exploration wells.
Under the terms of the Rio Seco association contract, after a commercial contract area produces in excess of 60 MMBbls and the associates have recovered 100% of their investment, Ecopetrol's interest in production and costs would increase from 50% to 75% as the ratio of the accumulated income attributable to the associated parties to the contract other than Ecopetrol to the accumulated development, exploration and operating costs of such parties (less any expenses reimbursed by Ecopetrol) increases from a one-to-one ratio to a two-to-one ratio. Upon declaration of commerciality, Ecopetrol will be required to reimburse us from production for our 50% share of all seismic and exploratory wells costs from all production under the Rio Seco contract.
In the event a discovery is made and is not deemed to be commercially feasible by Ecopetrol, the associates may expend up to $2 million per contract over a one-year period to further delineate the field, 50% of which will be reimbursed if Ecopetrol subsequently accepts the commercial feasibility of the property. The
associates have the right to develop fields they believe are commercial on a sole risk basis. In such event, Ecopetrol will have the right to acquire a 50% interest therein upon payment of a penalty of 200% of the amounts expended by the associates from the point at which Ecopetrol rejected the initial commerciality application. Once the associates have recovered the 200% penalty and Ecopetrol begins to participate in the project, Ecopetrol must pay its proportionate share of all future costs on a pay-as-you-go basis. Seven Seas and the other associates have paid all costs of the exploration program under the association contracts to date. See "Business -- Changes in Our Original Strategy" concerning our recent agreement with Ecopetrol.
GHK Company Colombia serves as the operator of the Guaduas field, pursuant to the terms of operating agreements between Seven Seas, our subsidiaries and the other associates. GHK Company Colombia has exclusive responsibility for operations within the budgets and work programs approved by the executive committee and may demand payment in advance from each party of its respective shares of estimated subsequent monthly expenditures.
Under the terms of a letter agreement dated September 11, 1992, as amended, between GHK Company Colombia and Dr. Jay Namson, the holders of interests in the association contracts, except for Petrolinson S.A., will be required to assign a 2% working interest in the Dindal association contract and the Rio Seco association contracts to Dr. Namson after those interest holders recover from production of 100% of all costs incurred in connection with the exploration and development of the Dindal and Rio Seco association contract areas since the completion of the first-year work obligations under the Dindal association contract. Accordingly, when such costs have been recovered, we will be required to assign to Dr. Namson 2% of 55% from our 57.7% interests.
DRILLING ACTIVITY ON THE GUADUAS FIELD
To date, we have drilled thirteen wells on the Dindal and Rio Seco association contract areas. Six of those wells have been production tested and have achieved maximum actual oil production rates ranging from 3,415 to 13,123 Bbls/d. Four of the twelve wells did not produce commercial amounts of oil and gas during testing. The remaining three wells remain to be tested.
The first well, the Escuela 1, which was drilled in 1994 prior to the time we acquired an interest in the association contracts, did not encounter the Cimarrona formation. It was plugged and abandoned as non-commercial.
The discovery well on the Guaduas field was the second well drilled on the Dindal block, the El Segundo 1-E. The El Segundo 1-E commenced drilling in December 1995 and reached total depth in mid-January 1996. The well encountered the Cimarrona formation, the oil and gas reservoir of the Guaduas field, at a measured depth of 5,718 feet. Due to the circulation problems encountered while drilling, we stopped drilling after penetrating only 88 feet of the Cimarrona. The well was then completed open hole in February 1996. Open hole means that the well did not have casings, which is heavy steel pipe used to seal off fluids from the hole or to keep the hole from caving in. The El Segundo 1-E tested oil at an actual maximum rate of 3,415 Bbls/d.
A third well, El Segundo 1-N, reached total measured depth of 6,820 feet in November 1996. This well was intentionally deviated from the surface location of El Segundo 1-E to a bottom hole location approximately 2,000 feet north. The well encountered approximately 352 feet of oil saturated and highly fractured Cimarrona reservoir rocks. During production testing, El Segundo 1-N produced oil at an actual maximum rate of 8,948 Bbls/d.
A fourth well, El Segundo 1-S, was drilled and completed in September 1997 to a total measured depth of 6,920 feet. The bottom hole location of this well is approximately 2,000 feet south of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E well. In October 1997, the El Segundo 1-S was production tested at an actual maximum rate of 4,528 Bbls/d.
In October 1997, a fifth well, the Tres Pasos 1-E was drilled at a location approximately 1.6 miles northwest of the El Segundo 1-E. The Tres Pasos 1-E was the first well on the Rio Seco contract. The Tres Pasos 1-E well was completed at a measured depth of 6,150 feet. Production testing of the Tres Pasos 1-E well
was conducted in late 1997 and oil was produced at an actual maximum rate of 13,123 Bbls/d. Analysis of reservoir pressure data during production testing indicated pressure communication with all three El Segundo 1 wells. We believe this pressure communication over a 1.6-mile distance supports core studies showing an intensive degree of inter-connected fractures. The pressure communication also supports core studies showing the large calculated permeability within the area of the Cimarrona formation investigated during production testing.
In November 1997, the sixth well, El Segundo 2-E was drilled to a measured depth of 6,292 feet on the Dindal association contract. It was located approximately 3.7 miles north of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E discovery well. Production testing of El Segundo 2-E was completed in January 1998 and resulted in a maximum actual production rate of 5,381 Bbls/d. Analysis of pressure data during production testing indicated pressure communication with the El Segundo 1-S well, with a bottom hole location approximately 3.8 miles to the south. This data further confirmed the presence of a pervasive fracture system supporting the evidence for extensive permeability within the Cimarrona formation over the area investigated during the production testing.
In December 1997, the seventh well, Tres Pasos 2-E, was drilled to a measured depth of 6,054 feet on the Rio Seco block approximately 5.6 miles northwest of the surface location of El Segundo 1-E. The well encountered 290 feet of Cimarrona reservoir. Due to an operational problem that resulted from a failure to properly cement liner casing through the Cimarrona formation, we drilled a new side-tracked well bore. The Tres Pasos 2-E side-track reached a total measured depth of 5,880 feet with a bottom hole location approximately 900 feet southeast of the surface location. We plan to complete and test the side-track bore hole in 2000.
In November 1997, drilling commenced on the eighth well, El Segundo 3-E, located approximately 2.8 miles south of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E well on the Dindal block. The drilling of El Segundo 3-E was completed at a measured depth of 8,021 feet in February 1998. The well encountered 292 feet of Cimarrona formation. Customary log analysis indicated similar characteristics of lithology and fracturing similar to that observed in previous wells; however, unlike the other wells, there were no oil shows, only natural gas shows. This well was not cored. After the completion of drilling operations on El Segundo 3-E, we experienced significant mechanical problems while attempting to complete the well for production testing. We have temporarily abandoned the El Segundo 3-E well. We currently plan to sidetrack and horizontally redrill the well in 2000 in satisfaction of our $2.0 million exploration obligation with Ecopetrol.
The ninth well, El Segundo 6-E, is located on the Dindal block approximately 5.3 miles south of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E well. In June 1998, the El Segundo 6-E well reached a total measured depth from the surface of 8,669 feet. Our preliminary analyses while drilling indicated highly fractured core samples and over 300 feet of Cimarrona reservoir rocks with no apparent indication of oil-water contact and shows of oil and gas. During production, there was only a small show of oil and gas along with large quantities of water. Attempts to eliminate water migrating from behind the pipe were unsuccessful. Due to the magnitude of oil and gas shows encountered during drilling operations, management believes this well may be a candidate for a horizontal re-drill.
In July 1998, we completed drilling operations on the tenth well, Tres Pasos 4-E. This well is located on the Rio Seco association contract area, approximately 3.1 miles northwest from the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E discovery well. The well reached a total measured depth of approximately 6,300 feet. The Tres Pasos 4-E well encountered 303 feet of Cimarrona formation with oil and gas shows. However, the well bore did not appear to intersect the larger fracture system due to a rotation in reservoir fracture system orientation at the well's bottom hole location. Consequently, the well may not be commercially productive. We are still evaluating and analyzing the well, using bottom hole pressure recording to determine whether a side-track lateral/horizontal well bore is warranted.
In September 1998, we drilled the eleventh well, Tres Pasos 3-E, located on the Rio Seco block approximately 1.9 miles south of the Tres Pasos 1-E well. The Tres Pasos 3-E well encountered 282 feet of Cimarrona with oil and gas shows. Drilling was then extended to a total measured depth of 10,187 feet in the deeper Villeta formation where shows of oil and gas were encountered. In February 1999, we perforated the
deeper Villeta formation, the secondary zone of interest, which resulted in natural gas shows but not in commercial quantities of oil and gas. The shallower Cimarrona formation objective has not yet been tested. Perforating and testing of the Cimarrona formation is scheduled in 2000.
In December 1998, we completed drilling the twelfth well. This well, Tres Pasos 1-W, was our first horizontal/lateral well. It was drilled to a measured depth of 7,180 feet on the Rio Seco block. The horizontal bore hole penetrated 1,160 feet of the Cimarrona reservoir. Significant rates of oil flow were encountered while drilling the reservoir and no indications of oil-water were encountered. The well was production tested from January 7, 1999 until May 18, 1999 at various rates. The maximum controlled testing rate achieved was around 4,360 Bbls/d and cumulative oil produced during testing of this well was approximately 82,250 barrels of oil. This well produced 15,249 barrels of oil while testing in December 1999.
In December 1999, we drilled the thirteenth well, El Segundo 4-E, on the Dindal block located approximately 2.5 kilometers southeast of the El Segundo 1-N Guaduas field discovery well. The well reached a measured depth of 6,200 ft. The well was production tested in February and March, 2000. According to preliminary analysis, the well did not encounter the Cimarrona reservoir. The El Segundo 4-E has been shut in for pressure build up after testing gas and no oil from the open hole at rates of approximately 200 mcf/d. We will determine the future disposition of the well based on further evaluation of this data.
TABLE OF GUADUAS FIELD WELLS
The table below sets out maximum production testing rates for the Guaduas field wells as of December 31, 1999. Maximum testing rates of oil production are not indicative of production rates that may be realized during sustained commercial production. Production tests are conducted to obtain an indication of the production capacity of individual wells and to give an indication of reservoir quality and extent. Actual producing rates from individual wells will depend on the results of an integrated reservoir management strategy and an engineering production plan, which will incorporate data from all wells in the field to maximize the economic recovery of oil from the reservoir.
GEOLOGY AND RESERVOIR CHARACTERISTICS OF THE GUADUAS FIELD
The Guaduas field geological structure is a large anticlinal structure. An anticlinal structure is a sub-surface, geological structure that rises to a rounded peak. The primary oil reservoir is the Upper Cretacous Cimarrona formation, which is located on the west flank of the Villeta anticline with an average dip of 14 degrees at a depth of between approximately 6,000 and 8,000 vertical feet. The reservoir comprises both limestone and sandstone and is under-pressured. The oil is characterized by low sulfur content of approxi-
mately 0.5%, low paraffin content, a medium gravity of between 18 degrees to 20 degrees API, and a pour point of minus 34 degrees Fahrenheit.
The reservoir is generally intensely fractured and has indicated high permeability in the wells that successfully produced oil and gas. Pressure test analysis indicates the reservoir to be connected in most directions by large fractures that allow hydrocarbons to flow readily through the reservoir. We believe that these highly permeable fractures, in conjunction with the angle of the formation dip, will allow the oil to be produced by a combination of efficient oil recovery mechanisms, including gravity drainage, gravity segregation and pressure maintenance.
PRODUCTION FACILITIES, GATHERING AND PIPELINE SYSTEMS FOR THE GUADUAS FIELD
We have completed the engineering specifications for the construction of pipeline and production facilities. The construction of the pipeline and the production facilities is subject to a number of conditions, including negotiating construction contracts and obtaining required environmental and construction permits, easements and rights of way. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation -- Go Forward Strategy." In addition, we have not finalized our negotiations with the operator of the Oleoducto Alto Magdelena pipeline for the transportation of oil produced under the Increment II development plan.
There are certain economic incentives to build the pipeline as a separate project outside the association contracts. We have held discussions with the other associates and several outside parties which have expressed an interest in forming a separate company to execute the pipeline project. If a separate and independent company is formed, we may or may not own an equity interest in that pipeline company.
The Oleoducto Alto Magdelena pipeline is a regional pipeline that transports oil production from the Upper and Middle Magdalena river basins to the oil refining and terminal city of Vasconia. In Vasconia, the pipeline connects with the Oleoducto de Colombia regional pipeline that transports oil to the export terminal facilities at the port of Covenas, on the Caribbean coast. As a result of current and forecasted continuing excess capacity in the Oleoducto Alto Magdelena and Oleoducto de Colombia lines, we plan to build our pipeline from the Guaduas field to La Dorada, a town located 36 miles northwest of Guaduas. In La Dorada, our pipeline will connect with the Oleoducto Alto Magdelena pipeline so that Guaduas field oil production can be transported via the Oleoducto de Colombia pipeline to the port of Covenas. The possibility also exists for our oil to be transported from Vasconia to Covenas through the Oleoducto Central S.A.
MONTECRISTO AND ROSABLANCA ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS
Effective February 28, 1998, we acquired a 75% interest in the contiguous Montecristo and Rosablanca association contract areas. These areas cover a total of approximately 692,000 gross acres in the northern Middle Magdalena Basin. The Montecristo and Rosablanca association contracts are similar to the Rio Seco association contract, but with two major beneficial changes. First, in the Montecristo and Rosablanca association contracts, after a declaration of commerciality, Ecopetrol's interest in production and costs is on an individual field basis rather than being applicable to the entire contract. Second, the Montecristo and Rosablanca association contracts provide for an additional term of four years in the event a gas field is discovered.
We are evaluating the 950 miles of re-processed 2-D seismic data on the Montecristo and Rosablanca association contract areas. Our second year work obligation is to acquire over 60 miles (100 kilometers) of new seismic on each block. We have executed a contract with a geophysical contractor to satisfy this obligation for the Rosablanca contract. We are discussing with Ecopetrol the possibility of substituting other work, such as the same dollar amount of exploratory work on another agreed upon area, for the current obligation to acquire 100 kilometers of new 2-D seismic on the Montecristo contract by the end of February 2000. Seven Seas and Ecopetrol have agreed that an additional 100 kilometers of seismic is an unnecessary expenditure. Ecopetrol has orally agreed to delay the decision regarding the type of work until June 2000. We estimate the net cost to conduct seismic operations on the Montecristo association contract area would be
$1.0 million. We may assign part of our interest to a third party who would pay these costs, which would result in a reduction of our interest.
TAPIR ASSOCIATION CONTRACT
In the Central Llanos basin, 40 miles east of the Cusiana field, we own an 11.875% initial working interest in the 116,795 acre Tapir association contract area, which is operated by Mohave Colombia Corporation (Mohave). Mohave is production testing various zones in the Mateguafa 2 well, which reached a total depth of 8,701 feet on March 13, 2000. We have signed a purchase and sale agreement to sell our 11.875% interest in the Tapir association contract to Solana Petroleum Exploration Colombia Limited for 3,000,000 common shares of Solana Colombia's parent corporation, Solana Petroleum Corp. We are currently waiting for Ecopetrol and the Canadian Venture Exchange to approve the transfer of our interests to Solana. Upon the approvals, Solana will reimburse us for our costs attributable to the Tapir block since August 1, 1999, including our share of the Mateguafa 2 well costs. As of December 31, 1999, we estimated no proved reserves attributable to this contract area.
NEW COLOMBIAN HYDROCARBON POLICY
The Colombian government recently announced two significant changes to its hydrocarbon policy: (1) a new royalty regime and (2) new terms for all new association contracts.
- New Royalty Regime. The royalty on oil and gas production was changed from a fixed 20% to a sliding scale that is determined by production volume. The new sliding scale ranges from an initial royalty of 5% to 25% with higher production. The new royalty regime will apply to any new discoveries, whether they are on existing contracts (i.e. Dindal and Rio Seco) or new contracts. Because the Guaduas field has already been discovered, it will not fall under the new royalty regime.
- Modification of the Terms of Association Contracts. Associates of new association contracts will have an initial 70% interest instead of a 50% interest. Like previous contracts, depending on production volumes and capital expenditure, the associates' interest in the contract will ultimately decrease to 35% percent. None of our association contracts will be affected by these changes.
OTHER PROPERTIES
AUSTRALIA
In June 1999, we paid $0.2 million to the operator for the right to withdraw from our 20% interest in the Bass Basin in offshore southeast Australia. The withdrawal resulted in a $0.7 million loss. The operator assumed all obligations related to the property in the future.
In 1998, we completed the sale of our 11.77% working interest in the Perth Basin in Western Australia for approximately $0.9 million in cash and the reimbursement of approximately $0.3 million for certain capital expenditures.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
In February 1999, we entered into an agreement with ARCO Papua New Guinea Inc. whereby ARCO funded our obligation for the twelve-month period ended July 1998 for an 80% interest in the subject exploration permit. Subsequently, we relinquished our rights in the property to ARCO, retaining a small production payment, with no remaining required capital expenditures. In November 1999, ARCO surrendered its rights to the property; thus, terminating our production payment.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following table sets forth our estimated net proved oil and gas reserves, the estimated future net revenues before income taxes, the present value of estimated future net revenues before income taxes related to proved reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to proved reserves,
in each case as of December 31, 1999. All information relating to estimated net proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues and cash flows attributable thereto is based upon a report from Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Consultants. All calculations of estimated net proved reserves have been made in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
- ---------------
(1) The present value of estimated future net revenues was prepared using constant prices as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, discounted at 10% per annum on a pre-tax basis. The net price for 1999 was calculated using the December 31, 1999 price of $25.60 per barrel, less $4.50 per barrel for gravity adjustment and transportation and marketing costs, yielding a net price of $21.10 per barrel. The net price for 1998 was calculated using the December 31, 1998 price of $12.05 per barrel, less $4.50 per barrel for gravity adjustment and transportation and marketing costs, yielding a net price of $7.55 per barrel.
(2) The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows represents the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves after income tax, discounted at 10% per annum.
Reservoir engineering is a subjective process that involves estimating underground accumulations of gas and oil that cannot be measured in an exact way. The accuracy of any reserve estimate depends on the quality of available data, and on engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates made by different engineers often vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of the estimates. These revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are generally different from the quantities of gas and oil that are ultimately recovered.
Approximately 68% of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 1999 were undeveloped. Recovery of these reserves will require significant spending and successful drilling and completion operations. Although estimates of our reserves and related costs have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, we cannot be certain that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results will be as estimated.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS
The following table sets forth the gross, or total, number of productive oil and gas wells in which we have an interest as of December 31, 1999 and also sets forth the net number as of the same date. The net number of
productive wells is determined by multiplying the number of gross wells by our working interests in those wells.
- ---------------
(1) One or more completions in the same well bore are counted as one well.
(2) Before Ecopetrol's 50% acquisition rights have been exercised.
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth estimates of our gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage for which oil and gas leases or association contracts were held as of December 31, 1999. The gross acres number reflects the total number of acres in which we have an interest, without regard for the size of that interest. Net acres are determined in the same way that net wells are determined, by multiplying the gross acres by our interest in those acres. Undeveloped acreage means acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether the acreage contains proved reserves.
- ---------------
(1) Net acres are based on our respective working interests, and, in Colombia, are before Ecopetrol's participation.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following table sets forth the number of wells drilled by us from inception through December 31, 1999:
- ---------------
(1) Two of the exploratory wells listed as dry during 1998 are being evaluated as horizontal/lateral side-track candidates and two have not been tested.
(2) Before Ecopetrol's 50% acquisition rights have been exercised.
OTHER INFORMATION
We have included additional information regarding our oil and gas operations in the notes to our 1999 consolidated financial statements. This information addresses:
- our capitalized costs related to our oil and gas activities incurred in 1999, 1998 and 1997;
- our development, property acquisition and exploration costs incurred in 1999, 1998 and 1997;
- our proved reserves in 1999, 1998 and 1997;
- the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved oil reserves for 1999, 1998 and 1997; and
- the principal sources of changes in our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows in 1999 and 1998.
ITEM 3.