ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
COLOMBIAN PROPERTIES
GUADUAS FIELD
OVERVIEW. The Company's Colombian operations are focused on the Guaduas Field. The Guaduas Field discovery is within two adjoining association contracts located in the capital state of Cundinamarca in central Colombia, approximately 60 miles northwest of Bogota. The contract areas, covering approximately 109,000
acres, are defined by the Rio Seco and Dindal Association Contracts. The village of Guaduas lies within the Dindal and Rio Seco Association Contract blocks and provides infrastructure for the local economy, which is primarily agrarian in nature. The area is accessible via the main road between Bogota and Medellin and the Colombian Carribean Coast. The OAM pipeline is a regional pipeline transporting oil production from the Upper and Middle Magdalena river basins to the oil refining and terminal city of Vasconia where it connects with the Oleoducto de Colombia ("ODC") regional pipeline that transports oil to the export terminal facilities at the port of Covenas, on the Caribbean coast. As a result of current and forecast continuing excess capacity in the OAM and ODC lines, the Company plans to build its pipeline from the Guaduas Field to La Dorada, a town located 36 miles northwest of Guaduas, where it will connect with the OAM pipeline so that Guaduas Field oil production can be transported via the ODC pipeline to the port of Covenas. The Company owns a 57.7% working interest in the Guaduas Field before participation by Ecopetrol. The remaining interests are owned by MTV Investments Limited Partnership (9.4%) and Sociedad Internacional Petrolera, S.A. ("Sipetrol") (32.9%). Sipetrol is the international exploration and production subsidiary of the Chilean national oil company. As of December 31, 1998, Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Engineers estimated the Company's net proved reserves attributable to the delineation of 14,521 acres of the Guaduas Field to be 38,719,235 Bbls. of oil with a SEC PV-10 of $115.9 million, and the Guaduas Field total reserves to 163,303,000 Bbls.
DRILLING ACTIVITY. To date, twelve wells have been drilled on the Dindal and Rio Seco Association Contract areas. The first well, the Escuela 1, which was drilled in 1994 prior to the acquisition of an interest in the Association Contracts by the Company, did not encounter the Cimarrona formation and was plugged and abandoned as non-commercial.
The discovery well on the Guaduas Field was the second well drilled on the Dindal block, El Segundo 1-E. The El Segundo 1-E discovery well commenced drilling in December 1995 and reached total depth in mid-January 1996. The well encountered the Cimarrona formation, the oil and gas reservoir of the Guaduas Field, at a measured depth of 5,718 feet, but drilling was stopped after penetrating only 88 feet of the Cimarrona due to circulation problems while drilling. The well was then completed open hole in February 1996. The El Segundo I-E tested oil at an actual maximum rate of 3,415 Bbls/d.
A third well, El Segundo 1-N, reached total measured depth of 6,820 feet in November 1996. This well was intentionally deviated from the surface location of El Segundo 1-E to a bottom hole location approximately 2,000 feet north. The well encountered approximately 352 feet of oil saturated and highly fractured Cimarrona reservoir rocks. During production testing, El Segundo 1-N produced oil at an actual maximum rate of 8,948 Bbls/d.
A fourth well, El Segundo 1-S, was drilled and completed in September 1997 to a total measured depth of 6,920 feet. The bottom hole location of this well is approximately 2,000 feet south of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E well. In October 1997, the El Segundo 1-S was production tested at an actual maximum rate of 4,528 Bbls/d.
In October 1997, a fifth well, the Tres Pasos 1-E was drilled at a location approximately 1.6 miles northwest of the El Segundo 1-E as the first well on the Rio Seco contract. The Tres Pasos 1-E well was completed at a measured depth of 6,150 feet. Production testing of the Tres Pasos 1-E well was conducted in late-1997 and oil was produced at an actual maximum rate of 13,123 Bbls/d. Analysis of reservoir pressure data during production testing indicated pressure communication with all three El Segundo 1 wells. The Company believes that such pressure communication over a 1.6-mile distance supports core studies showing an intensive degree of inter-connected fractures and the large calculated permeability within the area of the Cimarrona formation investigated during production testing.
In November 1997, the sixth well, El Segundo 2-E was drilled to a measured depth of 6,292 feet on the Dindal Association Contract, approximately 3.7 miles north of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E discovery well. Production testing of El Segundo 2-E was completed in January 1998 and resulted in a maximum actual production rate of 5,381 Bbls/d. Analysis of pressure data during production testing evidenced communication with the El Segundo 1-S well with a bottom hole location approximately 3.8 miles to the south. This data further confirmed the presence of a pervasive fracture system supporting the evidence
for extensive permeability within the Cimarrona formation over the area investigated during the production testing.
In December 1997, the seventh well, Tres Pasos 2-E, was drilled to a measured depth of 6,054 feet on the Rio Seco block approximately 5.6 miles northwest of the surface location of El Segundo 1-E. The well encountered 290 feet of Cimarrona reservoir. Due to an operational problem that resulted from a failure to properly cement liner casing through the Cimarrona formation, the Company drilled a new side-tracked well bore. The Tres Pasos 2-E side-track reached a total measured depth of 5,880 feet with a bottom hole location approximately 900 feet southeast of the surface location. The Company plans to complete and test the side-track bore hole in 1999.
In November 1997, drilling commenced on the eighth well, El Segundo 3-E, located approximately 2.8 miles south of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E well on the Dindal block. The drilling of El Segundo 3-E was completed at a measured depth of 8,021 feet in February 1998. The well encountered 292 feet of Cimarrona formation. Customary log analysis indicated similar characteristics of lithology and fracturing as that observed in previous wells; however, unlike the other wells, there were no oil shows, only natural gas shows. This well was not cored. After the completion of drilling operations on El Segundo 3-E, the Company experienced significant mechanical problems while attempting to complete the well for production testing. The Company has temporarily abandoned the El Segundo 3-E well.
The ninth well, El Segundo 6-E, is located on the Dindal block approximately 5.3 miles south of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E well. In June 1998, the El Segundo 6-E well reached a total measured depth from the surface of 8,669 feet. Preliminary analyses while drilling included the observation of highly fractured core samples and over 300 feet of Cimarrona reservoir rocks with no apparent indication of oil-water contact and shows of oil and gas. During production only small show of oil and gas along with large quantities of water. Attempts to eliminate water migrating from behind the pipe were unsuccessful. Analysis of the water and its origin are ongoing. Due to the magnitude of oil and gas shows encountered during drilling operations, management believes this well may be a candidate for a horizontal re-drill. In February 1999, the Company shut-in the well to begin pressure recording in order to determine if there would be communication over the approximate six miles between it and the Tres Pasos No. 1-W horizontal well during its production testing.
In July 1998, the Company completed drilling operations on the tenth, Tres Pasos No. 4-E, located on the Rio Seco Association Contract area, approximately 3.1 miles northwest from the surface location of the El Segundo No. 1-E discovery well. The well reached a total measured depth of approximately 6,300 feet. Although the Tres Pasos 4-E well encountered 303 feet of Cimarrona formation with oil and gas shows, the well bore did not appear to intersect the larger fracture system due to a rotation in reservoir fracture system orientation at the well's bottom hole location. Consequently, the well may not be commercially productive. The Company is continuing evaluation and analysis using bottom hole pressure recording to determine whether a side-track lateral/horizontal well bore is warranted.
In September 1998, the Company drilled the eleventh well, Tres Pasos 3-E, located on the Rio Seco block approximately 1.9 miles south of the Tres Pasos 1-E well. The Tres Pasos 3-E well encountered 282 feet of Cimarrona with oil and gas shows. Drilling was then extended to a total measured depth of 10,187 feet in the deeper Villeta formation where shows of oil and gas were encountered. In February 1999, the Company perforated the deeper Villeta formation, the secondary zone of interest, which resulted in natural gas but not in commercial quantities of oil and gas. The possibility of hydraulically fracturing the Villeta formation is currently being evaluated. The shallower Cimarrona formation objective has not yet been tested. Perforating and testing of the Cimarrona formation is scheduled for later in 1999.
In December 1998, the Company completed drilling its twelfth well and its first horizontal/lateral well, Tres Pasos No. 1-W, which was drilled to a measured depth of 7,180 feet on the Rio Seco block. The horizontal bore hole penetrated 1,160 feet of the Cimarrona reservoir. Significant rates of oil flow were encountered while drilling the reservoir and no indications of water were encountered. In late January 1999, the Company began production testing without stimulation at a controlled rate of approximately 1,100 to 1,666 barrels of oil per day using a small submersible pump. To date, approximately 39,000 barrels of oil have been produced without water. Test oil is being sold at the field and trucked 80 miles from the well to a private local
refinery, the Refinerie de Nare. The rate of continuous production has been limited by storage, trucking and pump capacities. On March 1, 1999, the well was shut-in for two-weeks for pressure build-up analysis. The Company plans further testing, reservoir stimulation, and testing at multiple higher rates during the second quarter of 1999. This lengthy testing process is designed to achieve data needed to determine optimal production capacity for this well, the provision of additional reservoir engineering and data and further evaluation of the Guaduas Field oil reserves.
TABLE OF GUADUAS FIELD WELLS
The table below sets out maximum production testing rates for the Guaduas Field wells, however, maximum testing rates of oil production are not indicative of production rates that may be realized during sustained commercial production. Production tests are conducted to obtain an indication of the production capacity of individual wells and to give an indication of reservoir quality and extent. Actual producing rates from individual wells will depend on the results of an integrated reservoir management strategy and an engineering production plan, which will incorporate data from all wells in the field in a development plan to maximize the economic recovery of oil from the reservoir.
GEOLOGY AND RESERVOIR CHARACTERISTICS. The Guaduas Field geological structure is a large anticlinal structure. The primary oil reservoir is the Upper Cretacous Cimarrona formation, which is located on the west flank of the Villeta anticline with an average dip of 14 degrees at a depth of between approximately 6,000 and 8,000 vertical feet. The reservoir comprises both limestone and sandstone and is under pressured. The oil is characterized by low sulfur content of approximately 0.5%, low paraffin content, a medium gravity of between 18 degrees to 20 degrees API and a pour point of minus 34 degrees Fahrenheit.
The reservoir is generally intensely fractured and has indicated high permeability in the wells that successfully produced oil and gas. Pressure test analysis indicates the reservoir to be connected in most directions by large fractures that allow hydrocarbons to flow readily through the reservoir. These highly permeable fractures, in conjunction with the angle of the formation dip, will allow the oil to be produced by a combination of efficient oil recovery mechanisms including gravity drainage, gravity segregation and pressure maintenance.
STRATEGY FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF OIL PRODUCTION BY INCREMENTS AND FURTHER EXPLORATION. The Company's strategy to develop the Guaduas Field is as follows: (i) focus its resources on the development of the shallow Cimarrona reservoir of the Guaduas Field in order to achieve commercial production as soon as practicable, (ii) generate near-term cash flow to help finance continuing expansion of Guaduas Field oil production, (iii) continue development and delineation of the Guaduas Field, and (iv) use internally generated cash as well as external financing such as the issuance of equity or debt securities, project financing of pipeline and production facilities, commercial bank lending, industry joint ventures or other like arrangements with
industry service companies to accelerate incremental increases in Guaduas Field production, delineation drilling of the west flank of the Guaduas structure, the exploratory drilling of the deep structure below the shallow Cimarrona formation and the multiple prospects on the Montecristo and Rosablanca Association Contracts in the northern Middle Magdelena Basin.
As operator of the Guaduas Field, the Company's goal is to continue its field development and delineation drilling program and to install the production facilities and pipeline infrastructure to allow its production to reach the existing transportation pipelines for access to markets. The Company plans to achieve increasing production rates incrementally as described in "Item 1. Business -- Strategy for Guaduas Field Development and Pipeline Production."
TIMING OF CRITICAL EVENTS. In addition to contingencies discussed herein, there are several key events that must occur on schedule in order for the Company to reach Increment II, the Early Pipeline Production, by year end 2000, including the following:
- Global operating license -- The Company must receive a global operating license from the Colombian Ministry of Environment allowing for all development activity within the Association Contract areas. The Company filed its application for this permit on March 4, 1999.
- Environmental Permit for Pipeline -- The Company must procure an environmental permit for the pipeline prior to the commencement of pipeline construction. The Company expects to file its application for this permit before mid-1999.
- Approval of commerciality -- The Company must obtain approval of commerciality by Ecopetrol, as fifty percent of all costs for development and production subsequent to the date of commerciality will be borne by Ecopetrol (see "-- Terms of Association Contracts and Related Matters") and no commitments for the production development and pipeline construction can be made by the Company until Ecopetrol and the Company have a written commerciality agreement. The Company has entered into formal pre-commerciality discussions with Ecopetrol and anticipates receiving the commerciality agreement in December 1999.
All approvals must be obtained by January 2000 for the Company to meet the goal of completing Increment II, the Early Pipeline Production of 20,000 Bbls/d to 30,000 Bbls/d, before year-end 2000. Although the Company has begun the process for each of these approvals, no assurance can be given that they will be received or received on timely basis.
PRODUCTION FACILITIES, GATHERING AND PIPELINE SYSTEMS.
The Company has completed the basic and detailed engineering specifications for the construction of pipelines and production facilities. The construction of the pipeline and the production facilities is subject to a number of conditions, including negotiating construction contracts and obtaining required environmental and construction permits, easements and rights of way. The Company does not expect the pipeline to be completed before year-end 2000, and no assurance can be given as to whether or when such pipeline will be completed. In addition, the Company has not finalized its negotiations with the operator of the OAM pipeline for the transportation of oil produced under the Increment II development plan. If the Company is unsuccessful in constructing its pipeline and production facilities or in increasing its proved reserves or realizing future production from its properties, the Company may be unable to pay all of the principal of and interest on its indebtedness when due. See "-- Risks Related to the Oil and Gas Industry."
There are certain economic incentives to build the pipeline as a separate project outside the Association Contracts. Discussions have been initiated with the other associates and several outside parties which have expressed an interest in forming a separate company to execute the pipeline project. Should a separate and independent company be formed, the Company may or may not take an equity interest in that pipeline company.
TERMS OF ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS & RELATED MATTERS. Association contracts acquired from Ecopetrol, after receipt of the necessary approval by Colombian governmental authorities as well as the approval of the board
of Ecopetrol, are executed by the parties and subsequently recorded as a public deed in Colombia. Therefore, ownership of an association contract is protected by Colombian law.
The Association Contracts were issued by Ecopetrol for the Dindal contract in March 1993 and for the Rio Seco contract in August 1995. The Association Contracts generally provide for a maximum six-year exploration period followed by a maximum 22-year production period, with partial relinquishments of acreage, excluding commercial fields, required commencing at the end of the sixth year of each contract. Under the terms of the Association Contracts, the associates pay 100% of all exploratory costs. Ecopetrol will receive a royalty equal to 20% of production on behalf of the Colombian government and, after the field is declared commercial by Ecopetrol, it will acquire a 50% interest in the remaining production, bear 50% of the development costs, and reimburse the associates, from Ecopetrol's share of future production, for 50% of the associates' costs of certain direct exploration activities. Upon its acceptance of a field as commercial, Ecopetrol will acquire a 50% interest therein and the interests of the other parties to the contract, including the Company, will be reduced by 50%; all decisions regarding the development of a commercial field will be made by an Executive Committee consisting of a representative of the associated parties to the contract and Ecopetrol who will vote in proportion to their respective interests in such contract. Decisions of the Executive Committee will be made by the affirmative vote of the holders of over 50% of the interests in the contract.
Under the terms of the Dindal Association Contract, Ecopetrol's interest in production and costs would increase on a sliding scale after a commercial contract area produces in excess of 60 MMBbls. Such increases occur in 5% increments from 50% to 70% as accumulated production from all fields producing from the Dindal contract area increase in 30 million barrel increments from 60 MMBbls to 150 MMBbls. Recovery of Ecopetrol's 50% share of direct exploration costs is limited to production from successfully producible exploration wells. Unless extended by Ecopetrol, the exploration period under the Dindal Association Contract will expire in September 1999, at which time the Company must relinquish 50% of the contract area or all lands that fall outside a five kilometer buffer zone around the area designated to be the commercial field. The Company has requested an extension of the exploration period.
Under the terms of the Rio Seco Association Contract, after a commercial contract area produces in excess of 60 MMBbls and the associates have recovered 100% of their investment, Ecopetrol's interest in production and costs would increase from 50% to 75% as the ratio of the accumulated income attributable to the associated parties to the contract other than Ecopetrol to the accumulated development, exploration and operating costs of such parties (less any expenses reimbursed by Ecopetrol) increases from a one-to-one ratio to a two-to-one ratio. Ecopetrol will be required upon declaration of commerciality to reimburse the Company for its 50% share of all seismic and exploratory wells costs from all production under the Rio Seco contract.
Under the terms of the Association Contracts, in the event a discovery is made and is not deemed to be commercially feasible by Ecopetrol, the associates may expend up to $2 million per contract over a one-year period to further delineate the field, 50% of which will be reimbursed if Ecopetrol subsequently accepts the commercial feasibility of the property. The associates have the right to develop fields they believe are commercial on a sole risk basis. In such event, Ecopetrol will have the right to acquire a 50% interest therein upon payment of a penalty of 200% of the amounts expended by the associates. Once the associates have recovered 200% penalty and Ecopetrol backs in to the project, Ecopetrol must pay its proportionate share of all future costs on a pay as you go basis.
The Company and the other associates have paid all costs of the exploration program under the Association Contracts to date. Under the terms of the Dindal and Rio Seco Association Contracts, the Company and its partners are required to drill one well on each contract per year through 1999 and 2001, respectively, and will continue to bear all costs relating to a field until such field is declared commercial. The Company presented a preliminary request for commerciality to Ecopetrol in December 1998 and anticipates obtaining a pre-commerciality agreement during mid-1999. If an acceptable agreement is reached, the Company plans to submit a commerciality application to Ecopetrol in the third quarter of 1999 with respect to its discovery. Such application is subject to approval by Ecopetrol, which has the right to reject or delay acceptance of commerciality or to accept commerciality and acquire a 50% working interest in the Association Contracts. The Company is prepared to proceed with development and production of the Guaduas Field on a
sole risk basis in the event that Ecopetrol does not approve commerciality, subject to the availability of necessary financing.
GHKCC serves as the operator of the Guaduas Field, pursuant to the terms of operating agreements between the Company, its respective subsidiaries and the other associates. GHKCC has exclusive charge of carrying out the program of operations within the budgets and work programs approved by the Executive Committee and may demand payment in advance from each party of its respective shares of estimated subsequent monthly expenditures.
Under the terms of a letter agreement dated September 11, 1992, as amended, between GHKCC and Dr. Jay Namson, the holders of interests in the Association Contracts, except for Petrolinson, will be required to assign a 2% working interest in the Dindal Association Contract and the Rio Seco Association Contracts to Dr. Namson after recovery from production of 100% of all costs incurred in connection with the exploration and development of the Dindal and Rio Seco Association Contract areas since the completion of the first year work obligations under the Dindal Association Contract. Accordingly, when such costs have been recovered, the Company will be required to assign to Dr. Namson 2% of its interests prior to the acquisition of the 6% Petrolinson interest (or a 0.517% interest in the Association Contracts after adjusting for the acquisition of a 50% interest by Ecopetrol which is expected to occur prior to the assignment to Dr. Namson).
The Company currently holds a 57.7% interest in the Association Contracts, including a 6% interest acquired indirectly through the Company's acquisition of 100% of the securities of Petrolinson, the holder of such 6% interest. As the holders of the remaining 94% interest, the Company and the other associates had previously agreed to pay 100% of the exploration costs attributable to such 6% interest through the exploration period. The 6% previously owned by Petrolinson was a carried interest through the exploration phase. The exploration period will terminate upon Ecopetrol's declaration of the commerciality of a field, which the Company expects to occur during the fourth quarter of 1999.
OTHER COLOMBIAN ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS
MONTECRISTO AND ROSABLANCA ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS. Effective February 28, 1998, the Company acquired a 75% interest in the contiguous Montecristo and Rosablanca Association Contract areas, which cover a total of approximately 692,000 gross acres in the northern Middle Magdalena Basin. The terms of the Montecristo and Rosablanca Association Contracts are substantially similar to those of the Rio Seco Association Contract with two major beneficial changes. In the Montecristo and Rosablanca Association Contracts, Ecopetrol's interest in production and costs after a declaration of commerciality is on an individual field basis rather than being applicable to the entire contract and they provide for an additional contract term of four years in the event of the discovery of a gas field.
The Company has completed the reprocessing of 950 miles of 2-D seismic data on the Montecristo and Rosablanca Association Contract areas and is currently evaluating the reprocessed data. The Company is considering acquisition of outside funding via farm-out or forming an alliance with a seismic contractor to complete the 1999 work obligation of acquiring 60 miles (100 kilometers) of new seismic on each block, either of which events will result in a reduction of the Company's interest in the Association Contracts. The initial interpretation of the 2-D seismic data has revealed several potential drilling prospects.
TAPIR ASSOCIATION CONTRACT. Overview. The Company acquired an 11.875% interest in the Tapir Association Contract in April 1996. The Tapir Association Contract area consists of 233,000 gross acres located in the Llanos Basin of east central Colombia and is crossed by two oil pipelines carrying production from nearby oil fields. Other interests in the Tapir Association Contract are held by Mohave Colombia Corporation (37.5%), which serves as the operator, Doreal Energy Corporation (12.5%) and Solana Petroleum Exploration (Colombia) Ltd. (38.125%).
Drilling Activity. In 1993, the Macarenas #1 discovery well was drilled on the Tapir Association Contract area and produced 320 Bbls/d during a short-term test, but was not completed for production. Since the well was drilled and tested, additional oil pipeline infrastructure has been built in the area. The operator plans to place the well on long-term production test after the completion of the exploratory well to determine
sustainable production rates and the extent of the reservoir. The Company participated in the Mateguafa well, which was completed and tested in April 1998. The Mateguafa well has been tested at rates of 777 Bbls/d. The operator has recommended releasing 50% of the contract area rather than drill two wells in 1999. An additional exploration well necessary to maintain 50% of the contract area, the Caporal 1 well, was spud in March 1999 and is expected to reach its target depth in April 1999.
Terms of Tapir Association Contract. The Tapir Association Contract was effective on February 6, 1995 on terms substantially similar to the Rio Seco Association Contract.
OTHER PROPERTIES
AUSTRALIA. During 1998, the Company sold its interest in two Perth Basin exploration permits to a third party for total proceeds of $1.2 million. The following is a description of the Company's remaining interest in Australia, which the Company plans to divest or farm out.
Bass Basin, Block T27P. In March 1996, the Company acquired a six-month option to purchase its interest in the block for $0.3 million and, in September 1996, exercised that option. The Company holds a 20% working interest in Block T27P, a 1,800,000 acre block in approximately 70 meters of water in the Bass Strait Basin in offshore southeastern Australia. The Bass Strait Basin has been the site of a series of gas and oil discoveries, including the Yolla Field, which is adjacent to Block T27P. The Yolla Field was discovered by Amoco in the mid-1980s and has not yet been fully appraised or developed.
Globex Exploration, the operator of the permit with an 80% working interest, was granted the Offshore Petroleum Exploration Permit effective August 10, 1994 (the "Bass Basin Permit"). Globex completed a 620-mile 2-D seismic program on the block. The remaining work commitment on the block consists of a 3-D seismic survey and two exploration wells. Globex has selected a drillable prospect approximately 6.2 miles north of the Yolla Field and is seeking additional participants in the block to share the cost of an exploratory well which is estimated to cost approximately $9.2 million. As suitable drilling rigs were not available, Globex obtained a permit extension in the block until such rig could be contracted. Globex now plans to spud an exploratory test well in mid-1999, depending on rig availability. If the well is drilled and the Company is unsuccessful in farming-out its interest, its share of the well costs are estimated to be $1.84 million.
PAPUA NEW GUINEA. The Company acquired 100% of exploration permit PPL-182 in southern Papua New Guinea effective June 11, 1996. The permit covers an area of 1,200,000 acres located both onshore and offshore in the Fly River Delta and the Gulf of Papua. The Company entered into an Agreement with ARCO Papua New Guinea Inc. ("ARCO") for a farm out of its interest whereby ARCO funded the Company's obligation for the twelve-month period ended July 1998 in return for an 80% interest in the exploration permit. Subsequently, the Company relinquished further rights in the property to ARCO and retained a small production payment.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following table sets forth estimated net proved oil and gas reserves of the Company, the estimated future net revenues before income taxes, the present value of estimated future net revenues before income taxes related to proved reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to proved reserves, in each case as of December 31, 1998. All information relating to estimated net proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues and cash flows attributable thereto is based upon a report from Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Engineers ("Ryder Scott"). All calculations of estimated net proved
reserves have been made in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Commission (the "Commission").
- ---------------
(1) The present value of estimated future net revenues attributable to the Company's proved reserves was prepared using constant prices as of December 31, 1998, discounted at 10% per annum on a pre-tax basis (SEC PV-10). The net price in 1998 was calculated using the December 31, 1998 price of $12.05 per barrel, less $4.50 per barrel for gravity adjustment and transportation and marketing costs, yielding a net price of $7.55 per barrel. The net price for 1997 was calculated using the December 31, 1997 price of $17.00 per barrel, less $6.85 per barrel for gravity adjustment and transportation and marketing costs, yielding a net price of $10.15 per barrel. The year-end 1997 costs for gravity adjustments were $1.32 per barrel higher than year-end 1998. The 1997 transportation and marketing costs included a $1.03 per barrel tariff and fee for amortization of the Guaduas to La Dorada portion of the pipeline. The pipeline costs were included in capital costs in the 1998 year-end report.
(2) The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows represents the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves after income tax, discounted at 10% per annum.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves, future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the control of the Company. The reserve data set forth herein represent only estimates. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data, engineering and geological interpretation and judgment and the existence of commercial development plans. As a result, estimates of reserves made by different engineers for the same property will often vary. Results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify a revision of such estimates. Accordingly, reserve estimates generally differ from the quantities of oil and gas ultimately produced. Further, the estimated future net revenues from proved reserves and the present value thereof are based upon certain assumptions, including geological success, prices, future production levels and costs that may not prove to be correct. Predictions about prices and future production levels are subject to great uncertainty, and the meaningfulness of such estimates depends on the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they are based.
This document contains estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues therefrom based upon the Company's own estimates and on those of Ryder Scott and Servipetrol Ltd. Such estimates rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the Commission as to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex and by its very nature uncertain, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic
data for each reservoir. As a result, such estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those estimated by the Company or Ryder Scott and Servipetrol Ltd. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves set forth herewith. The Company's properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, the Company's estimated proved reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, results of future exploration and development, prevailing oil and gas prices, mechanical difficulties, government regulation and other factors, many of which are beyond the Company's control. Actual production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to the Company's reserves will likely vary from the estimates used, and such variances may be material.
Approximately 48% of the Company's total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 1998 were undeveloped, which are by their nature less certain. Recovery of such reserves will require significant capital expenditures and successful drilling and completion operations. The Company's reserve data assume that ongoing capital expenditures by the Company will be required to develop such reserves. Although cost and reserve estimates attributable to the Company's oil and gas reserves have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, no assurance can be given that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results will be as estimated.
The present value of future net revenues (SEC PV-10) referred to herewith should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated oil and gas reserves attributable to the Company's properties. In accordance with applicable requirements of the Commission, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are generally based on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by increases in field consumption of gas and oil and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value, will be affected by the timing of both the production and the incurrence of expenses in connection with development and production of oil and gas properties. In addition, the 10% discount factor, which is required by the Commission to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company or the oil and gas industry in general.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS
The following table sets forth the productive oil and gas wells owned by the Company as of December 31, 1998:
- ---------------
(1) One or more completions in the same well bore are counted as one well.
(2) Before Ecopetrol's 50% acquisition rights have been exercised.
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth estimates of the developed and undeveloped acreage for which oil and gas leases or concessions were held by the Company as of December 31, 1998.
- ---------------
(1) Net acres are based on the Company's respective working interests and, in Colombia, are before Colombian government participation.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following table sets forth the number of wells drilled by the Company from inception through December 31, 1998:
- ---------------
(1) Two of the exploratory wells listed as dry during 1998 are being evaluated as horizontal/lateral side-track candidates and two have not been tested.
(2) Before Ecopetrol's 50% acquisition rights have been exercised.
Since December 31, 1998, the Company has drilled no wells. The Company is currently continuing to test one gross exploratory well (0.6 net to the Company).
MARKETING
Oil produced from the Dindal and Rio Seco Association Contract areas during long-term production tests has been sold to Ecopetrol and the Refinerie del Nare. Upon Ecopetrol's declaration of the commerciality of the Company's discovery, oil produced from the Dindal and Rio Seco Association Contract areas may be sold to Ecopetrol or to third parties. In the event the production is required to satisfy internal demand for oil in Colombia, the Company may be required to sell some or all of its production to Ecopetrol at prevailing market prices.
REGULATION
GENERAL
The Company's operations are affected by political developments and laws and regulations in the areas in which it operates. In particular, oil and gas production operations and economics are affected by price controls, tax and other laws relating to the petroleum industry, by changes in such laws and by changing administrative regulations and the interpretations and application of such rules and regulations. Oil and gas industry legislation and agency regulation is periodically changed for a variety of political, economic, environmental and other reasons. Numerous governmental departments and agencies issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry, some of which carry substantial penalties for the failure to comply. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the Company's cost of doing business.
Extensive national, provincial and/or local environmental laws and regulations in Colombia and the other countries in which the Company operates affect nearly all of the operations of the Company. These laws and regulations set various standards regulating certain aspects of health and environmental quality, provide for penalties and other liabilities for the violation of such standards and establish in certain circumstances obligations to remediate current and former facilities and off-site locations. In addition, special provisions may be appropriate or required in environmentally sensitive areas of operation, such as where the Company's Colombian interests are located and where other independent producers of oil and gas have faced significant liability resulting from environmental claims.
The Company's operations are subject to regulations imposed by the local regulatory authorities including, without limitation, currency regulation, import and export regulation, taxation and environmental controls. The regulations also generally specify, among other things, the extent to which properties may be acquired or relinquished, permits necessary for drilling of wells, spacing of wells, permits for development and operations of the field and of pipeline transportation systems, measures required for preventing waste of oil and gas resources and, in some cases, rates of production and sales prices to be charged to purchasers. Specifically, Colombian operations are governed by a number of ministries and agencies including Ecopetrol, the Ministry of Mines and Energy, the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of the Environment.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
The Company's operations in Colombia are subject to a variety of national, provincial, and local environmental laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment, the disposal of oil and gas wastes, and the protection of human health and environmental quality. On the federal level, the Ministry of Environment regulates all activities that could have an adverse impact on the environment and natural resources of Colombia. The Ministry requires specific environmental licenses for a variety of oil and gas exploration and production activities, and individual licenses are issued only upon completion of a detailed environmental impact study. The Company has experienced and may continue to experience delays in obtaining the federal environmental licenses and other, local environmental permits required for expansion of its operations in Colombia. Nevertheless, the Company has obtained timely environmental licenses for its global operating permit for exploration activities in the Dindal and Rio Seco Association Contract areas. The Company has applied for the necessary licenses for production and development drilling activities and is in the process of completing the environmental impact studies that must be performed in order to obtain an environmental license for the transportation plan. See "-- Colombian Properties -- Guaduas Field -- Timing of Critical Events." In addition, the Company is currently planning to commence preparation of environmental impact studies required for the issuance of environmental licenses for exploration and production activities for the Rosa Blanca and Montecristo contract areas.
It is possible that the administration and enforcement of current environmental laws and regulations or the passage of new environmental laws or regulations in Colombia could result in substantial costs and liabilities in the future or in delays in obtaining the necessary permits to conduct and expand the Company's operations in such country. Significant liability could be imposed on the Company for damages, clean-up costs and/or penalties in the event of certain discharges into the environment, environmental damage caused by
previous owners of property purchased by the Company or non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations. Such liability could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Moreover, the Company cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or enforced. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, or more vigorous enforcement policies of any regulatory agency, could in the future require material expenditures by the Company for the installation and operation of systems and equipment for remedial measures, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
On March 18, 1998, the Ministry of the Environment provided notice of its intention to investigate alleged violations of environmental requirements with respect to location work on the Company's El Segundo 6-E exploratory well. The Company responded promptly to the notice from the Ministry of the Environment by reporting that all of the alleged violations had been corrected. In a subsequent site visit, Ministry officials confirmed that the alleged violations had been properly remedied. Although no assurances can be given, the Company does not expect any fines or penalties to be imposed in connection with the alleged environmental violations at the Company's El Segundo 6-E well.
The Ministry of Environment by resolution has decided to open a list of charges against GHK Company Colombia based on alleged environmental damages, originating from the location that has been constructed for the proposed El Segundo 7-E well. The Company has experienced difficulty trying to stabilize the slopes of this location, and as a result, sediments from the location were entering a creek. At this time, remediation efforts are underway and should be completed soon. The Company has been notified that it will likely be assessed a fine for the alleged environmental damages at the El Segundo 7-E location. The Company believes that the amount accrued will be sufficient to cover remediation costs and potential fines assessed as a result of El Segundo 7-E operations.
Furthermore, no assurance can be given that new environmental requirements will not be imposed on the Company's operations and activities, and the Company cannot predict how environmental laws and regulations will be administered or enforced in the future in Colombia and the other countries in which the Company operates. Significant changes in environmental requirements or in the administration and enforcement of environmental laws and regulations in areas where the Company operates could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
ITEM 3.