ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
GENERAL OVERVIEW
Our Colombian operations are focused on the Guaduas Oil Field, located in the capital state of Cundinamarca in central Colombia, approximately 60 miles northwest of Bogota. The Guaduas Oil Field is located in an approximately 108,000 acre area defined by the Dindal and Rio Seco association contracts. The town of Guaduas lies within the Dindal and Rio Seco association contract blocks and provides infrastructure for the local economy, which is primarily agrarian in nature. The area is accessible by the main road between Bogota and Medellin and the Colombian Caribbean coast. We are the operator and own a 57.7% working interest in the Guaduas Oil Field before participation by Ecopetrol. As the operator of the field, we exercise direct supervision over all field operations, including drilling and production. The other interest owners are Cimarrona LLC (9.4%) and Sipetrol (32.9%). As of December 31, 2001, the Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Consultants estimated our net proved reserves attributable to the delineation of 12,821 acres of the Guaduas Oil Field were 47.6 million barrels with a present value (discounted continually over the expected life of the production at 10% per annum) of $272.3 million.
We also have a 100% interest in the Deep Dindal, Cristales and Rosablanca association contracts. In May 2001, we reassigned a 19.19% interest in the Tapir association contract to the operator, relieving us of a potential $2.1 million obligation. We attributed no oil and gas reserves to this contract area. Additional information about each of these contract areas is provided later in this section.
COLOMBIAN PROPERTIES
DINDAL AND RIO SECO ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS - GUADUAS OIL FIELD
The Dindal and Rio Seco association contracts cover adjoining areas of approximately 108,000 acres that contain the Guaduas Oil Field. The Dindal association contract has an effective date of March 23, 1993, and the Rio Seco association contract has an effective date of August 22, 1995. Both association contracts provided for a six-year exploration period followed by a maximum 22-year production period, with partial relinquishments of acreage, excluding commercial fields, required at the end of the sixth year of each contract. The Dindal exploration period has ended and we have 20 years left on the contract to produce the Guaduas Oil Field. Although the exploration period ended, Ecopetrol recently postponed the required relinquishment of Dindal association contract areas outside the Guaduas Oil Field and the five-kilometer buffer zone for as long as the Deep Dindal association contract is in the exploration period. The Deep Dindal association contract was issued in February 2001. See "Deep Dindal association contract."
In May 2000, Ecopetrol elected not to participate in the development and production of the Guaduas Oil Field. The Associates elected to proceed on a sole-risk basis pursuant to the terms of the Dindal and Rio Seco association contracts. Ecopetrol retains the right to participate at a later date subject to the Associates recovering 200% of the costs incurred since Ecopetrol's May 2000 decision not to participate plus certain exploration costs.
Under the terms of the Dindal and Rio Seco association contracts, the Associates pay 100% of all exploratory costs. As Ecopetrol elected not to participate in the development and production of the Guaduas Oil Field, the Associates will also pay 100% of the development costs.
The Associates are required to pay a royalty of 20% of all hydrocarbon production to the Colombian government. Because Ecopetrol elected not to participate at this time, the remaining 80% of production is divided among the Associates according to their proportionate interest in the association contract. If Ecopetrol participates in the future, the remaining 80% will be divided as follows:
o Dindal association contract - Of the remaining 80% of production, Ecopetrol will receive 50% and the Associates will receive 50% until the contract area has produced in excess of 60 million barrels of oil, after which point Ecopetrol's interest in production will increase on a sliding scale. Such increases occur in 5% increments from 50% to 70% as accumulated production from the contract area increase in 30 million barrel increments from 60 million barrels to 150 million barrels.
o Rio Seco association contract - Of the remaining 80% of production, Ecopetrol will receive 50% and the Associates will receive 50% until the contract area has produced 60 million barrels of oil, after which point Ecopetrol's interest will increase from 50% to 75% as the ratio of accumulated income attributable to the Associates (less any expenses reimbursed by Ecopetrol) increases from a one-to-one ratio to a two-to-one ratio.
Under both the Dindal and the Rio Seco association contracts, if Ecopetrol does elect to participate, it would pay 50% of the go forward development and operating expenses.
Our wholly owned subsidiary, GHK Colombia, serves as the operator of the Guaduas Oil Field, pursuant to the terms of operating agreements between us, our subsidiaries and the other Associates. GHK Colombia has exclusive responsibility for operations within the budgets and work programs approved by the executive committee and may demand payment in advance from each party of its respective shares of estimated subsequent monthly expenditures.
Under the terms of a letter agreement dated September 11, 1992, as amended, between GHK Colombia and Dr. Jay Namson, the holders of interests in the association contracts, except for Petrolinson S.A., will be required to assign a proportionately reduced 2% working interest in the Dindal association contract and the Rio Seco association contracts to Dr. Namson after those interest holders recover from production of 100% of all costs incurred in connection with the exploration and development of the Dindal and Rio Seco association contract areas since the completion of the first-year work obligations under the Dindal association contract. Accordingly, when such costs have been recovered, we will be required to assign to Dr. Namson 2% of 55% from our 57.7% interests.
DRILLING ACTIVITY ON THE RIO SECO AND DINDAL ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS
As of March 2002, nineteen wells have been drilled on the Dindal and Rio Seco association contract areas. Twelve of those wells are classified "producing". Seven of the wells did not produce commercial amounts of oil and gas during testing. One of the non-commercial wells has been converted into a gas injector well.
TABLE OF GUADUAS OIL FIELD WELLS
The table below lists the nineteen wells drilled to date and the well currently being drilled.
GEOLOGY AND RESERVOIR CHARACTERISTICS OF THE GUADUAS OIL FIELD
The Guaduas Oil Field geological structure is a large anticlinal structure. An anticlinal structure is a sub-surface, geological structure that rises to a rounded peak. The primary oil reservoir is the Upper Cretacous Cimarrona formation, which is located on the west flank of the Villeta anticline with an average dip of 14 degrees and at a depth of between approximately 5,000 and 8,000 vertical feet. The reservoir comprises both limestone and sandstone and is under-pressured. The oil is characterized by low sulfur content of approximately 0.5%, low paraffin content, a medium gravity of between 18 degrees to 20 degrees API, and a pour point of minus 34 degrees Fahrenheit.
The reservoir is generally intensely fractured and has indicated high permeability in the wells that successfully produced oil and gas. Pressure test analysis indicates the reservoir to be connected in most directions by large fractures that allow hydrocarbons to flow readily through the reservoir. We believe that these highly permeable fractures, in conjunction with the angle of the formation dip, will allow the oil to be produced by a combination of efficient oil recovery mechanisms, including gravity drainage, gravity segregation and pressure maintenance.
PRODUCTION FACILITIES, GATHERING AND PIPELINE SYSTEMS FOR THE GUADUAS OIL FIELD
In July 2001, the Guaduas--La Dorada Pipeline was completed on schedule and within budget. The 40-mile Guaduas--La Dorada pipeline connects the Guaduas Oil Field to international oil markets via Colombia's existing pipeline infrastructure. Initial gross production rates of 2,800 BOPD have increased to over 10,000 BOPD. The Guaduas - La Dorada Pipeline transports Guaduas Oil Field production to La Dorada, a small town north of the field, where it intersects with the Oleoducto Alto Magdalena (OAM) pipeline, a regional pipeline that transports oil production from the Upper and Middle Magdalena river valley to the oil refining and terminal city of Vasconia. In Vasconia, the OAM pipeline connects with the Oleoducto de Colombia (ODC) and the Oleoducto Central S.A. (OCENSA) pipelines, both of which transport oil to the export terminal facilities at the Caribbean port of Covenas. In early 2001, we signed an agreement to transport our share of the Guaduas Oil Field crude oil production through the OAM and ODC pipelines.
The 10-inch, 40-mile Guaduas - La Dorada Pipeline is currently capable of transporting approximately 25,000 BOPD. However, with additional investments in tanks and shipping pumps, capacity can be increased to approximately 40,000 BOPD.
We have constructed a production facility next to the surface location of the Tres Pasos 1-E well that includes a heater treater, production separators, generators, a gas scrubber, booster and shipping pumps for pipeline production and other production related equipment. We have storage capacity of 20,000 barrels of oil at this facility and another 5,000 at the La Dorada station. We are in the process of expanding the storage capacity by an additional 10,000 barrels at the production facility. A truck loading facility that was completed in early 2000 and used before the pipeline was completed will serve as a back up to the pipeline system.
DEEP DINDAL ASSOCIATION CONTRACT
In February 2001, we acquired the Deep Dindal association contract, which is also known as an "on top" contract because it originated from the Dindal association contract. This association contract has the same surface area as the Dindal association contract (approximately 65,000 acres), but it only applies to the areas below the base of the Guaduas Oil Field. This area contains the Subthrust Dindal Prospect, where we commenced drilling the Escuela 2 exploratory test well in December 2001. We have a 100% interest in this association contract subject to an obligation to assign some of this interest to Sipetrol and Cimarrona LLC, our partners in the Guaduas Oil Field, pursuant to an exploration agreement we signed with them in January 2001. Following the drilling of a exploration well to test the Subthrust Dindal Prospect, we will have to assign either a 25.85% collective interest to Sipetrol and Cimarrona LLC, or a 9.4% interest percent to Cimarrona LLC and provide Sipetrol with a 4.86% overriding royalty interest that is reducible by Colombian government participation in the project. Additional information on the exploration agreement, which is a part of a larger agreement with our partners, is available in a Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on January 31, 2001.
The terms of the Deep Dindal association contract are similar to the Rio Seco association contract terms insofar as the Associates are responsible for 100% of the exploration costs, Ecopetrol will have a right to participate in the development and production of an oil or gas discovery, and Ecopetrol's interest will increase as the ratio of accumulated income attributable to the Associates (less any expenses reimbursed by Ecopetrol) increases from a one-to-one ratio to a two-to-one ratio. However, Ecopetrol's initial interest will be 30%, as compared to 50% under the Rio Seco and Dindal association contracts, and will increase only to 65%, as compared to 75% under the Rio Seco association contract and 70% under the Dindal association contract. Another benefit of the Deep Dindal association contract is that it is a full 28-year contract, including a 25-year production period, as compared to a 22-year production period under the Dindal and Rio Seco association contracts.
The Deep Dindal association contract requires that we drill an exploration well during each of its two eighteen month exploration stages, the first of which commenced on April 24, 2001, the effective date of the association contract, and the second of which commences at the end of the first. On December 6, 2001, the Escuela 2 exploration well commenced drilling to satisfy the first eighteen-month exploration commitment.
In 2000, the Colombian government enacted a new royalty regime for oil and gas fields discovered after the date of enactment. Under the new regime, the royalty on oil and gas production of new discoveries will be a variable royalty that begins at 5% and rises to 20% as cumulative hydrocarbon production increases. Under the old royalty regime, oil and gas production was subject to a fixed 20% royalty. However, in July 2001, the Colombian Constitutional Court declared the new royalty regime unconstitutional, but agreed to permit the regime to remain in effect for discoveries made between the date of enactment and June 20, 2002. The Colombian government is expected to submit a new royalty regime law to the Colombian Congress before the current regime expires on June 20, 2002. The Constitutional Court ruling means that if an oil and gas field is discovered in the Deep Dindal association contract area before June 20, 2002, the discovery will be subject to the variable royalty regime that was ruled unconstitutional. If a discovery is made after June 20, 2002, then it will be subject to the new regime or the old fixed 20% royalty regime.
CRISTALES ASSOCIATION CONTRACT
In February 2001, we acquired the Cristales association contract, covering an area of approximately 200,000 gross contiguous acres located immediately to the east of the Dindal and Deep Dindal association contract areas. We have a 100% interest in this association contract. The fiscal terms of the Cristales association contract are identical to the Deep Dindal terms, with one exception: the Cristales association contract has a 6-year exploration period and a 22-year production period, as compared to a 3-year exploration period and a 25-year exploration period under the Deep Dindal association contract. Our first year obligation under this contract is to conduct remote sensing work and other geological and geochemical studies at an expected cost of $350,000. Ecopetrol has been requested to extend the completion of the first year work program from April 2002 to November 2002. The second year of the work program will require a minimum expenditure commitment of $2,500,000. Our decision to continue exploration work under the Cristales association contract will be influenced by the results of the Escuela 2 well. The royalty regime that will apply to oil and gas discoveries under this contract will be determined by the same regime as a discovery made under the Deep Dindal association contract.
ROSABLANCA ASSOCIATION CONTRACT
We have a 100% interest in the Rosablanca association contract that covers approximately 242,000 acres in Colombia's northern Middle Magdalena Valley. As part of an agreement with Ecopetrol that satisfied various second and third year obligations under this contract, we agreed to relinquish a contract covering an adjacent area and to drill an exploration well on the Rosablanca association contract area by February 2001. However, as a result of not receiving the required environmental permit from the Colombian Ministry of Environment, Ecopetrol granted us an extension to July 31, 2002. This well, to be called the Santa Fe - 1, will be drilled to an estimated total depth of 3,400 feet at an estimated gross cost of $1.0 million ($1.0 million net to Seven Seas).
The terms of the Rosablanca association contract are similar to the Rio Seco association contract, but with two major beneficial changes. First, after a declaration of commerciality, Ecopetrol's interest in production and costs would be on an individual-field basis rather than being applicable to the entire contract. Second, the Rosablanca association contract provides for an additional term of four years in the event a gas field is discovered. The royalty regime that will apply to oil and gas discoveries under this contract will be determined by the same regime as a discovery made under the Deep Dindal association contract.
TAPIR ASSOCIATION CONTRACT
In May 2001, the Company reassigned its interest in the Tapir association contract to the operator, relieving the Company of a potential $2.1 million obligation. The Company attributed no oil and gas reserves to this contract area. Our 19.19% interest in the Tapir association contract 2001 work program was estimated to be $2.1 million. Although there had been two successful wells and one dry hole, the Company did not believe there was sufficient economic justification for its continued participation in this prospect.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following table sets forth our estimated net proved oil and gas reserves, the estimated future net revenues before income taxes, the present value of estimated future net revenues before income taxes related to proved reserves and the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows related to proved reserves, in each case as of December 31, 2001 and 2000. All information relating to estimated net proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues and cash flows attributable thereto are based upon a report from Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Consultants. All calculations of estimated net proved reserves have been made in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
- ----------
(1) The present value of estimated future net revenues was prepared using constant prices as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, discounted at 10% per annum on a pre-tax basis. The net price for 2001 was calculated using the December 31, 2001 price of $19.84 per barrel, less $5.93 per barrel for gravity adjustment and transportation and marketing costs, yielding a net price of $13.91 per barrel. The net price for 2000 was calculated using the December 31, 2000 price of $26.80 per barrel, less $8.64 per barrel for gravity adjustment and transportation and marketing costs, yielding a net price of $18.16 per barrel.
(2) The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows represents the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves after income tax, discounted at 10% per annum.
Reservoir engineering is a subjective process that involves estimating underground accumulations of gas and oil that cannot be measured in an exact way. The accuracy of any reserve estimate depends on the quality of available data, and on engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates made by different engineers often vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of the estimates. These revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are generally different from the quantities of gas and oil that are ultimately recovered.
Approximately 42% and 67% of our total estimated proved reserves were undeveloped as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Recovery of these reserves will require significant spending and successful drilling and completion operations. Although estimates of our reserves and related costs have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, we cannot be certain that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results will be as estimated.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS
The following table sets forth the gross, or total, number of productive oil wells in which we have an interest as of December 31, 2001 and also sets forth the net number as of the same date. The net number of productive wells is determined by multiplying the number of gross wells by our working interests in those wells.
- ----------
(1) One or more completions in the same well bore are counted as one well.
(2) The relinquishment of the Tapir association contract in May 2001 resulted in a 2 gross well and 0.4 net well reduction.
(3) Net interests are based on our respective working interests in the association contracts that cover the areas in which these wells were drilled, and are before Ecopetrol's participation.
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth estimates of our gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage for which oil and gas leases or association contracts were held as of December 31, 2001. The gross acres number reflects the total number of acres in which we have an interest, without regard to the size of that interest. Net acres are determined in the same way that net wells are determined, by multiplying the gross acres by our interest in those acres. Undeveloped acreage means acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether the acreage contains proved reserves.
- ------------------- (1) Net acres are based on our respective working interests in the association contracts that cover these areas, and are before Ecopetrol's participation.
We are currently in final negotiations with Ecopetrol to determine the final Rio Seco acreage for the post-exploration period. Our current estimate is that the 43,000 acres covered by the Rio Seco association contract will be reduced by 10 to 15%.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following table sets forth the number of wells drilled by us from inception through December 31, 2001:
- -------------- (1) Our net interests in wells located in Colombia are before Ecopetrol's participation.
OTHER INFORMATION
We have included additional information regarding our oil and gas operations in the notes to our 2001 consolidated financial statements. This information addresses:
o our capitalized costs related to our oil and gas activities incurred in 2001, 2000 and 1999;
o our development, property acquisition and exploration costs incurred in 2001, 2000 and 1999;
o our proved reserves in 2001, 2000 and 1999;
o the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved oil reserves for 2001, 2000 and 1999; and
o the principal sources of changes in our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows in 2001, 2000 and 1999.
ITEM 3.