ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
GENERAL OVERVIEW
Our Colombian operations are focused on the Guaduas Oil Field, located in the capital state of Cundinamarca in central Colombia, approximately 60 miles northwest of Bogota. The Guaduas Oil Field is located in a 109,000-acre area defined by the Dindal and Rio Seco association contracts. The village of Guaduas lies within the Dindal and Rio Seco association contract blocks and provides infrastructure for the local economy, which is primarily agrarian in nature. The area is accessible by the main road between Bogota and Medellin and the Colombian Caribbean coast. We are the operator and own a 57.7% working interest in the Guaduas Oil Field before Colombian government participation. As the operator of the field, we exercise direct supervision over all field operations, including drilling and production. The other interest owners are Cimarrona LLC (9.4%) and Sociedad International Petrolera S.A., known as Sipetrol, the international exploration and production subsidiary of the Chilean national oil company (32.9%). Collectively we are known as the "Associates". As of December 31, 2000, the Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Consultants estimated Seven Seas' net proved reserves attributable to the delineation of 12,821 acres of the Guaduas Oil Field were 47.9 million barrels with a present value (discounted continually over the expected life of the production at 10% per annum) of $ 394.1 million.
We also have a 100% interest in the Deep Dindal, Cristales and Rosablanca association contracts and a 19.19% interest in the Tapir association contract. Additional information about each of these contract areas is provided later in this section.
COLOMBIAN PROPERTIES
DINDAL AND RIO SECO ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS - GUADUAS OIL FIELD
The Dindal and Rio Seco association contracts cover adjoining areas of approximately 109,000 acres that contain the Guaduas Oil Field. The Dindal association contract has an effective date of March 23, 1993, and the Rio Seco association contract has an effective date of August 22, 1995. Both association contracts provided for a six-year exploration period followed by a maximum 22-year production period, with partial relinquishments of acreage, excluding commercial fields, required at the end of the sixth year of each contract. The Dindal exploration period has ended and we have 21 years left on the contract to produce the Guaduas Oil Field. Although the exploration period ended, Ecopetrol recently postponed the required relinquishment of Dindal association contract areas outside the Guaduas Oil Field and the five-kilometer buffer zone for as long as the Deep Dindal association contract is in the exploration period. The Deep Dindal association contract was issued in February 2001. See "--Deep Dindal association contract."
We are obligated to drill one more exploration well on the Rio Seco association contract area before the exploration period of that contract ends in August 2001. At some point in the future, we may have to relinquish the smaller of 50% of the contract areas or all lands that fall outside a five kilometer buffer zone around the area designated to be the commercial field.
In May 2000, Ecopetrol elected not to participate in the development and production of the Guaduas Oil Field. The Associates have elected to proceed on a sole-risk basis pursuant to the terms of the Dindal and Rio Seco association contracts. Ecopetrol retains the right to participate at a later date subject to the Associates recovering 200% of the costs incurred since Ecopetrol's May 2000 decision not to participate plus certain exploration costs.
Under the terms of the Dindal and Rio Seco association contracts, the Associates pay 100% of all exploratory costs. As Ecopetrol elected not to participate in the development and production of the Guaduas Oil Field, the Associates will also pay 100% of the development costs.
The Associates are required to pay a royalty of 20% of all hydrocarbon production to the Colombian government. Because Ecopetrol elected not to participate at this time, the remaining 80% of production is divided among the Associates according to their proportionate interest in the association contract. If Ecopetrol participates in the future, the remaining 80% will be divided as follows:
o Dindal association contract - Of the remaining 80% of production, Ecopetrol will receive 50% and the Associates will receive 50% until the contract area has produced in excess of 60 million barrels of oil, after which point Ecopetrol's interest in production will increase on a sliding scale. Such increases occur in 5% increments from 50% to 70% as accumulated production from the contract area increase in 30 million barrel increments from 60 million barrels to 150 million barrels.
o Rio Seco association contract - Of the remaining 80% of production, Ecopetrol will receive 50% and the Associates will receive 50% until the contract area has produced 60 million barrels of oil, after which point Ecopetrol's interest will increase from 50% to 75% as the ratio of accumulated income attributable to the Associates (less any expenses reimbursed by Ecopetrol) increases from a one-to-one ratio to a two-to-one ratio.
Under both contracts, if Ecopetrol does elect to participate, it would pay 50% of the go forward development and operating expenses.
Our wholly owned subsidiary GHK Company Colombia serves as the operator of the Guaduas Oil Field, pursuant to the terms of operating agreements between Seven Seas, our subsidiaries and the other associates. GHK Company Colombia has exclusive responsibility for operations within the budgets and work programs approved by the executive committee and may demand payment in advance from each party of its respective shares of estimated subsequent monthly expenditures.
Under the terms of a letter agreement dated September 11, 1992, as amended, between GHK Company Colombia and Dr. Jay Namson, the holders of interests in the association contracts, except for Petrolinson S.A., will be required to assign a proportionately reduced 2% working interest in the Dindal association contract and the Rio Seco association contracts to Dr. Namson after those interest holders recover from production of 100% of all costs incurred in connection with the exploration and development of the Dindal and Rio Seco association contract areas since the completion of the first-year work obligations under the Dindal association contract. Accordingly, when such costs have been recovered, we will be required to assign to Dr. Namson 2% of 55% from our 57.7% interests.
DRILLING ACTIVITY ON THE RIO SECO AND DINDAL ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS
To date, thirteen wells have been drilled on the Dindal and Rio Seco association contract areas. Seven of those wells are classified as oil and gas wells. Five of the wells did not produce commercial amounts of oil and gas during testing. One well remains to be tested.
The first well, the Escuela 1, which was drilled on the Dindal contract area in 1994 prior to the time we acquired an interest in the association contract, did not encounter the Cimarrona formation, the oil and gas reservoir of the Guaduas Oil Field. It was plugged and abandoned as non-commercial.
The second well, El Segundo 1-E, was the discovery well of the Guaduas Oil Field. The El Segundo 1-E commenced drilling in December 1995 and reached total depth in mid-January 1996. The well encountered the Cimarrona formation, at a measured depth of 5,718 feet. Due to the circulation problems encountered while drilling, we stopped drilling after penetrating only 88 feet of the Cimarrona. The well was then completed open hole in February 1996. Open hole means that the well did not have casing, which is heavy steel pipe used to seal off fluids from the hole or to keep the hole from caving in. During initial production testing conducted in 1996, the El Segundo 1-E produced oil at an average rate of 2,282 BOPD. As of December 31, 2001, cumulative oil production from this well was 48,435 barrels of oil. This well is currently being used as a field pressure observation well.
A third well, El Segundo 1-N, reached total measured depth of 6,820 feet in November 1996. This well was intentionally deviated from the surface location of El Segundo 1-E to a bottom hole location approximately 2,000 feet north. The well encountered approximately 352 feet of oil saturated and highly fractured Cimarrona reservoir rocks. During initial production testing conducted between December 1996 and May 1997, the El Segundo 1-N produced oil at an average rate of 2,867 BOPD. During a long-term production test conducted in the fourth quarter of 1999, this well produced an average controlled rate of 1,750 BOPD. As of December 31, 2000, cumulative oil production from this well was 180,333 barrels of oil.
A fourth well, El Segundo 1-S, was drilled and completed in September 1997 to a total measured depth of 6,920 feet. The bottom hole location of this well is located approximately 2,000 feet south of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E well. During initial production testing, this well produced at an average rate of 3,201 BOPD. During the 1999 long-term production test, this well produced at an average controlled rate of 2,328 BOPD. Between August 2000, when post-exploration phase production commenced,
and December 31, 2000, this well produced oil at average controlled rate of 2,711 BOPD. Cumulative oil production as of December 31, 2000 from this well was 440,838 barrels of oil.
In October 1997, a fifth well, the Tres Pasos 1-E was drilled at a location approximately 8,500 feet northwest of the El Segundo 1-E. The Tres Pasos 1-E was the first well on the Rio Seco association contract. The Tres Pasos 1-E well was completed at a measured depth of 6,150 feet. Analysis of reservoir pressure data during production testing indicated pressure communication with all three El Segundo 1 wells. We believe this pressure communication over a 8,500-feet distance supports core studies showing an intensive degree of inter-connected fractures. The pressure communication also supports core studies showing the large calculated permeability within the area of the Cimarrona formation investigated during production testing. During initial production testing conducted in the fourth quarter of 1997, the Tres Pasos 1-E produced oil at an average rate of 2,690 BOPD. It was further tested during the 1999 long-term production test at an average rate of 2,721 BOPD. Between August 2000, when post-exploration phase production commenced, and December 31, 2000, this well produced oil at an average controlled rate of 1,933 BOPD. Cumulative oil production as of December 31, 2000 from this well was 375,358 barrels of oil.
In November 1997, the sixth well, El Segundo 2-E was drilled to a measured depth of 6,292 feet on the Dindal association contract. It was located approximately 19,532 feet north of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E discovery well. Analysis of pressure data during production testing indicated pressure communication with the El Segundo 1-S well, which has a bottom hole location approximately 20,100 feet to the south of the El Segundo 2-E bottom hole. These data further confirmed the presence of a pervasive fracture system supporting the evidence for extensive permeability within the Cimarrona formation over the area investigated during the production testing. During initial production testing conducted in the fourth quarter of 1997 and the first quarter of 1998, the El Segundo 2-E produced oil at an average controlled rate of 2,730 BOPD. This well was not tested during the 1999 long-term production test. Between August 2000, when post-exploration phase production commenced, and December 31, 2000, this well produced oil at an average controlled rate of 742 BOPD. Cumulative oil production as of December 31, 2000 from this well was 47,219 barrels of oil.
In December 1997, the seventh well, Tres Pasos 2-E, was drilled to a measured depth of 6,054 feet on the Rio Seco block approximately 29,600 feet northwest of the surface location of El Segundo 1-E. The well encountered 290 feet of the Cimarrona formation reservoir. Due to an operational problem that resulted from a failure to properly cement liner casing through the Cimarrona formation, we drilled a new side-tracked well bore. The Tres Pasos 2-E side-track reached a total measured depth of 5,880 feet with a bottom hole location approximately 900 feet southeast of the surface location. In October 2000, we completed and tested the side-track well bore of the Tres Pasos 2-E, which produced non-commercial quantities of oil and gas. We have temporarily abandoned the well pending the evaluation of a hydraulic fracture treatment.
In November 1997, drilling commenced on the eighth well, El Segundo 3-E, located approximately 14,800 feet south of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E well on the Dindal block. The drilling of El Segundo 3-E was completed at a measured depth of 8,021 feet in February 1998. The well encountered 292 feet of Cimarrona formation. Customary log analysis indicated similar characteristics of lithology and fracturing similar to that observed in previous wells; however, unlike the other wells, there were no oil shows, only natural gas shows. This well was not cored. After the completion of drilling operations on El Segundo 3-E, we experienced significant mechanical problems while attempting to complete the well for production testing. We have temporarily abandoned the El Segundo 3-E well.
The ninth well, El Segundo 6-E, is located on the Dindal block approximately 28,000 feet south of the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E well. In June 1998, the El Segundo 6-E well reached a total measured depth from the surface of 8,669 feet. Our preliminary analyses while drilling indicated highly fractured core samples and over 300 feet of Cimarrona reservoir rocks with no apparent indication of oil-water contact and shows of oil and gas. During production, there was only a small show of oil and gas along with large quantities of water. Attempts to eliminate water migrating from behind the pipe were unsuccessful. During the second half of 2000, we redrilled the El Segundo 6-E well to a total measured depth of 9,250 feet. During a 15-day production test, the well produced oil and no water at an average rate of 320 barrels per day from a non-stimulated open hole portion of the Cimarrona formation. The production was not limited by the size of the pump used in the testing. However, sediments filling a significant portion of the open-hole productive zone may have reduced production. The Company will review the production and pressure data from the El Segundo 6-E redrill to determine future plans for the well, which may include cleaning out the Cimarrona portion of the well bore, running a slotted or cemented production liner, and stimulating all or selected intervals of the Cimarrona. Because the well is located approximately seven kilometers from the Guaduas Oil Field's existing production and loading facilities, the Company plans to delay future completion and production operations on the El Segundo 6-E redrill until the Guaduas - La Dorada pipeline is closer to its projected completion date of mid-2001. Cumulative oil production as of December 31, 2000 from this well was 4,937 barrels of oil.
In July 1998, we completed drilling operations on the tenth well, Tres Pasos 4-E. This well is located on the Rio Seco association contract area, approximately 16,400 feet northwest from the surface location of the El Segundo 1-E discovery well. The well reached a total measured depth of approximately 6,300 feet. The Tres Pasos 4-E well encountered 303 feet of Cimarrona formation with oil and gas shows. However, the well bore did not appear to intersect the larger fracture system due to a rotation in reservoir fracture system orientation at the well's bottom hole location. Consequently, the well may not be commercially productive. We are still evaluating and
analyzing the well, using bottom hole pressure recording to determine whether a side-track lateral/horizontal well bore is warranted.
In September 1998, we drilled the eleventh well, Tres Pasos 3-E, located on the Rio Seco block approximately 10,000 feet south of the Tres Pasos 1-E well. The Tres Pasos 3-E well encountered 282 feet of Cimarrona with oil and gas shows. Drilling was then extended to a total measured depth of 10,187 feet in the deeper Villeta formation where shows of oil and gas were encountered. In February 1999, we perforated the deeper Villeta formation, the secondary zone of interest, which resulted in natural gas shows but not in commercial quantities of oil and gas. The shallower Cimarrona formation objective has not yet been tested. Perforating and testing of the Cimarrona formation is scheduled in 2001.
In December 1998, we completed drilling the twelfth well. This well, Tres Pasos 1-WH, was our first horizontal/lateral well. It is approximately 6,500 feet west and 2,300 feet north of the El Segundo 1-E. It was drilled to a measured depth of 7,180 feet on the Rio Seco block. The horizontal bore hole penetrated 1,160 feet of the Cimarrona reservoir. Significant rates of oil flow were encountered while drilling the reservoir and no indications of oil-water were encountered. The well was production tested from January 7, 1999 until May 18, 1999 at an average rate of 1,530 BOPD. During the long-term production test conducted in the fourth quarter of 1999, this well produced at an average rate of 1,689 BOPD. As of December 31, 2000, cumulative oil production from this well was 106,125 barrels of oil.
In December 1999, we drilled the thirteenth well, El Segundo 4-E, on the Dindal block located approximately 8,200 feet southeast of the El Segundo 1-N discovery well. The well reached a measured depth of 6,200 feet. The well was production tested in February and March of 2000. According to preliminary analysis, the well did not encounter the Cimarrona reservoir. The El Segundo 4-E has been shut in for pressure build up after testing gas from the open hole at rates of approximately 200 mcf/d. We will determine the future disposition of the well based on further evaluation of this data.
TABLE OF GUADUAS OIL FIELD WELLS
The table below sets out cumulative and average production for the Guaduas Oil Field wells as of December 31, 2000.
- ----------
(1) Cumulative production as of December 31, 2000 was 1,203,245 barrels of oil from the seven productive wells listed in the table.
(2) Average rate of production during the 1999 long-term production test, unless the well was not produced at that time. If the well was not tested during the 1999 long-term production test, the rate refers to the average production rate during initial testing.
(3) During a 15-day production test, the El Segundo 6-E tested at an average rate of 320 barrels per day.
GEOLOGY AND RESERVOIR CHARACTERISTICS OF THE GUADUAS OIL FIELD
The Guaduas Oil Field geological structure is a large anticlinal structure. An anticlinal structure is a sub-surface, geological structure that rises to a rounded peak. The primary oil reservoir is the Upper Cretacous Cimarrona formation, which is located on the west flank of the Villeta anticline with an average dip of 14 degrees at a depth of between approximately 6,000 and 8,000 vertical feet. The reservoir comprises both limestone and sandstone and is under-pressured. The oil is characterized by low sulfur content of approximately 0.5%, low paraffin content, a medium gravity of between 18 degrees to 20 degrees API, and a pour point of minus 34 degrees Fahrenheit.
The reservoir is generally intensely fractured and has indicated high permeability in the wells that successfully produced oil and gas. Pressure test analysis indicates the reservoir to be connected in most directions by large fractures that allow hydrocarbons to flow
readily through the reservoir. We believe that these highly permeable fractures, in conjunction with the angle of the formation dip, will allow the oil to be produced by a combination of efficient oil recovery mechanisms, including gravity drainage, gravity segregation and pressure maintenance.
PRODUCTION FACILITIES, GATHERING AND PIPELINE SYSTEMS FOR THE GUADUAS OIL FIELD
In January 2000, we completed the construction of the production facility that has been used since August 2000 for the production of between 4,000 - 6,000 BOPD. We currently have four 5,000-barrel storage tanks at this production facility, providing storage capacity of 20,000 barrels.
In July 2000 we received the required environmental permits for the Guaduas - - La Dorada Pipeline and the related production facilities. The approximate 36-mile Guaduas - La Dorada Pipeline will connect the Guaduas Oil Field to international oil markets via Colombia's existing pipeline infrastructure. Operations to construct this pipeline commenced in October 2000. We have completed the purchase of rights-of-way for the pipeline route, taken delivery of the 10-inch pipe for the pipeline, nearly completed the clearing of the pipeline route, and successfully completed underground river crossing, the most difficult part of the construction. As of the filing date of this report, the Guaduas - La Dorada Pipeline remained on schedule for a mid-year 2001 completion.
The Guaduas - La Dorada Pipeline will transport Guaduas Oil Field production to La Dorada, a small town north of the field, where it will intersect with the Oleoducto Alto Magdalena (OAM) pipeline, a regional pipeline that transports oil production from the Upper and Middle Magdalena river valley to the oil refining and terminal city of Vasconia. In Vasconia, the OAM pipeline connects with the Oleoducto de Colombia (ODC) and the Oleoducto Central S.A. (OCENSA) pipelines, both of which transport oil to the export terminal facilities at the Caribbean port of Covenas. In early 2001, we signed an agreement to transport our share of the Guaduas Oil Field crude oil production through the OAM and ODC pipelines.
DEEP DINDAL ASSOCIATION CONTRACT
In February 2001, we acquired the Deep Dindal association contract, which is also known as an "on top" contract because it originated from the Dindal association contract. This association contract has the same surface area as the Dindal association contract (approximately 65,000 acres), but it only applies to the areas below the base of the Guaduas Oil Field. This area contains the subthrust Dindal prospect, which we plan to test with an exploration well in 2001. We have a 100% interest in this association contract subject to an obligation to assign some of this interest to Sipetrol and Cimarrona, our partners in the Guaduas Oil Field, pursuant to an Exploration agreement we signed with them in January 2001. Following the drilling of a exploration well to test the subthrust Dindal prospect, we will have to assign either a 25.85% collective interest to Sipetrol and Cimarrona, or a 9.4% interest percent to Cimarrona and provide Sipetrol with a 4.86% overriding royalty interest that is reducible by Colombian government participation in the project. Additional information on the exploration agreement, which is a part of a larger agreement with our partners, is available in a Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on January 31, 2001.
The terms of the Deep Dindal association contract are similar to the Rio Seco association contract terms insofar as the Associates are responsible for 100% of the exploration costs, Ecopetrol will have a right to participate in the development and production of a discovery, and Ecopetrol's interest will increase as the ratio of accumulated income attributable to the Associates (less any expenses reimbursed by Ecopetrol) increases from a one-to-one ratio to a two-to-one ratio. However, Ecopetrol's initial interest will be 30%, as compared to 50% under the Rio Seco and Dindal association contracts, and will increase only to 65%, as compared to 75% under the Rio Seco association contract and 70% under the Dindal association contract. Another benefit of the Deep Dindal association contract is that it is a full 28-year contract, including a 25-year production period, as compared to a 22-year production period under the Dindal and Rio Seco association contracts.
The Deep Dindal association contract requires that we drill an exploration well during each of its two eighteen month exploration stages, the first of which commences on April 24, 2001, the effective date of the association contract, and the second of which commences at the end of the first. We plan to drill an exploration well at an estimated cost of $15 million in 2001 to satisfy the first eighteen-month requirement. Our plans are contingent upon 1) our ability to secure the financing for the 100% of the costs of drilling and testing this well, and 2) receiving the required environmental permit.
In 1999, the Colombian government enacted a new royalty regime for oil and gas fields discovered after the date of enactment. Under the new regime, the royalty on oil and gas production of new discoveries will be a variable royalty that begins at 5% and rises to 20% as cumulative hydrocarbon production increases. Under the old royalty regime, oil and gas production was subject to a fixed 20% royalty. Because the Guaduas Oil Field was discovered before the enactment of the new royalty regime, production from this field will be subject to the fixed 20% royalty. If a discovery is made in the area covered by the Deep Dindal association contract, it will be subject to the new royalty regime.
CRISTALES ASSOCIATION CONTRACT
In February 2001, we acquired the Cristales association contract, covering an area of approximately 200,000 gross contiguous acres located immediately to the east of the Dindal and Deep Dindal association contract areas. We have a 100% interest in this association contract. The fiscal terms of the Cristales association contract are identical to the Deep Dindal terms, with one exception: the Cristales association contract has a 6-year exploration period and a 22-year production period, as compared to a 3-year exploration period and a 25-year exploration period under the Deep Dindal association contract. Our first year obligation under this contract is to conduct remote sensing work and other geological and geochemical studies at an expected cost of $350,000. Colombia's new royalty regime will be applied to any discovery made with the Cristales association contract area.
ROSABLANCA ASSOCIATION CONTRACT
Effective February 28, 1998, we acquired a 75% interest in the adjoining Rosablanca and Montecristo association contract areas. In late 2000, we reached an agreement with Ecopetrol to drill one well on the Rosablanca association contract area and relinquish the Montecristo association contract to satisfy various second and third year work obligations under these contracts. Additionally, in accordance with the contract terms, we recently reduced the size of the Rosablanca contract area by approximately 74,000 acres. The Rosablanca contract now covers approximately 242,500 gross contiguous acres in the northern Middle Magdalena Basin. Under the terms of the recently signed agreement with Ecopetrol, the well on the Rosablanca contract was supposed to be started by February 28, 2001. However, we have not received the required environmental permit from the Colombian Ministry of Environment. Consequently, Ecopetrol granted us a six-month extension to drill this well. This well, to be called the Santa Fe - 1, will be drilled to an estimated total depth of 3400 feet at an estimated gross cost of $1.0 million.
The terms of the Rosablanca association contract are similar to the Rio Seco association contract, but with two major beneficial changes. First, after a declaration of commerciality, Ecopetrol's interest in production and costs would be on an individual-field basis rather than being applicable to the entire contract. Second, the Rosablanca association contract provides for an additional term of four years in the event a gas field is discovered. Colombia's new royalty regime will be applied to any discovery made within the Rosablanca association contract area.
On November 8, 2000, we notified Potomac Energy Corporation, a 25% working interest partner in the Rosablanca association contract, that it was in default of approximately $0.4 million of its share of costs under the joint operating agreement. Potomac had to remedy the default by January 8, 2001 to avoid forfeiting its interest in the contract area. Potomac did not remedy the default, and as a result, we now have a 100% interest in the association contract.
TAPIR ASSOCIATION CONTRACT
In April 1996, we acquired an 11.875% initial working interest in the Tapir association contract, which covers 116,795 acres in Colombia's Central Llanos basin and is located 40 miles east of the Cusiana Field. The Tapir association contract was effective on February 6, 1995 on terms substantially similar to the Rio Seco association contract. Mohave Colombia Corporation (Mohave) is the operator and 37.5% working interest owner of the Tapir association contract. The other two initial working interest owners are Doreal Energy Corporation with 12.5% and Solana Petroleum Exploration Colombia (Solana) with 38.125%
In 1998, we participated in the Mateguafa-1 well, which produced oil at a rate of 777 BOPD during testing. In 1999, we participated in the Caporal-1 well to test a different prospect within the Tapir contract area. The Caporal-1 well was a dry hole. During the first half of 2000, we participated in the Mateguafa-2A well, located 1.8 kilometers south of the Mateguafa-1 well. This well has not been tested, but is scheduled for completion and testing operations in 2001 along with additional production testing of the Mateguafa-1 well.
In August 2000, we signed a purchase and sale agreement with Solana to sell our 11.875% interest in the Tapir association contract for 3,000,000 common shares of Solana's parent corporation, Solana Petroleum Corporation. Seven Seas and Solana have subsequently agreed to terminate this purchase and sale agreement. Additionally, Solana is in default for failure to pay its participating share of Joint Account expenses, and has agreed to relinquish its interest in the Tapir association contract. We have agreed to be assigned our proportionate share of the interest in the Tapir association contract that Solana will relinquish. Upon receipt of that assignment, our interest in the Tapir association contract will increase to approximately 19.19%
In January 2001, Mohave will begin the sixth year work program. The proposed program includes the construction of an all-weather road, production testing the Mateguafa 1 and 2 wells, and drilling an exploratory well. With our 19.19% interest in the Tapir association contract, our share of costs of the 2001 work program is estimated to be $2.1 million. We will, however, continue to look for a potential purchaser for our interest.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following table sets forth our estimated net proved oil and gas reserves, the estimated future net revenues before income taxes, the present value of estimated future net revenues before income taxes related to proved reserves and the standardized measure of
discounted future net cash flows related to proved reserves, in each case as of December 31, 2000 and 1999. All information relating to estimated net proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues and cash flows attributable thereto is based upon a report from Ryder Scott Company Petroleum Consultants. All calculations of estimated net proved reserves have been made in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
- ----------
(1) The increase in the Company's net reserves is principally due to the May 2000 decision by Ecopetrol, Colombia's national oil company, not to participate in the development of the Guaduas Oil Field and to permit Seven Seas and its partners to proceed on a sole-risk basis.
(2) The present value of estimated future net revenues was prepared using constant prices as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, discounted at 10% per annum on a pre-tax basis. The net price for 2000 was calculated using the December 31, 2000 price of $26.80 per barrel, less $8.64 per barrel for gravity adjustment and transportation and marketing costs, yielding a net price of $18.16 per barrel. The net price for 1999 was calculated using the December 31, 1999 price of $25.60 per barrel, less $4.50 per barrel for gravity adjustment and transportation and marketing costs, yielding a net price of $21.10 per barrel.
(3) The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows represents the present value of estimated future net revenues from proved reserves after income tax, discounted at 10% per annum.
Reservoir engineering is a subjective process that involves estimating underground accumulations of gas and oil that cannot be measured in an exact way. The accuracy of any reserve estimate depends on the quality of available data, and on engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. As a result, estimates made by different engineers often vary. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of the estimates. These revisions may be material. Accordingly, reserve estimates are generally different from the quantities of gas and oil that are ultimately recovered.
Approximately 67% of our total estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2000 were undeveloped. Recovery of these reserves will require significant spending and successful drilling and completion operations. Although estimates of our reserves and related costs have been prepared in accordance with industry standards, we cannot be certain that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the results will be as estimated.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS
The following table sets forth the gross, or total, number of productive oil and gas wells in which we have an interest as of December 31, 2000 and also sets forth the net number as of the same date. The net number of productive wells is determined by multiplying the number of gross wells by our working interests in those wells.
- ----------
(1) One or more completions in the same well bore are counted as one well.
(2) Net interests are based on our respective working interests in the association contracts that cover the areas in which these wells were drilled, and are before Ecopetrol's participation.
ACREAGE
The following table sets forth estimates of our gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage for which oil and gas leases or association contracts were held as of December 31, 2000. The gross acres number reflects the total number of acres in which we have an interest, without regard to the size of that interest. Net acres are determined in the same way that net wells are determined, by multiplying the gross acres by our interest in those acres. Undeveloped acreage means acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether the acreage contains proved reserves.
- ----------
(1) Net acres are based on our respective working interests in the association contracts that cover these areas, and are before Ecopetrol's participation.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following table sets forth the number of wells drilled by us from inception through December 31, 2000:
- ----------
(1) Our net interests in wells located in Colombia are before Ecopetrol's participation.
OTHER INFORMATION
We have included additional information regarding our oil and gas operations in the notes to our 2000 consolidated financial statements. This information addresses:
o our capitalized costs related to our oil and gas activities incurred in 2000, 1999 and 1998;
o our development, property acquisition and exploration costs incurred in 2000, 1999 and 1998;
o our proved reserves in 2000, 1999 and 1998;
o the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows attributable to our proved oil reserves for 2000, 1999 and 1998; and
o the principal sources of changes in our standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows in 2000, 1999 and 1998.
ITEM 3.