ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
MARKET SEGMENTATION
Patriot classifies its hotels into four primary market segments: (i) full service; (ii) limited service; (iii) resorts; and (iv) conference center.
Patriot currently owns 44 full service hotels aggregating 10,996 guest rooms (including four hotel properties which have been acquired in 1997), which target both business and leisure travelers, including meetings and groups, who prefer a full range of facilities, services and amenities. Forty of Patriot's full service hotels are operated under franchise or brand affiliations with nationally recognized hotel companies, including Marriott(R), Crowne Plaza(R), Radisson(R), Hilton(R), Hyatt(R), Four Points by Sheraton(R), Holiday Inn(R), Wyndham(TM), Wyndham Garden(R), WestCoast(R), Doubletree(R), Embassy Suites(R), and Grand Heritage(R). One additional hotel will be branded a Doubletree(R) upon completion of its renovation. Full service hotels generally offer a full range of meeting and conference facilities and banquet space. Facilities generally include restaurants and lounge areas, gift shops and recreational facilities, including swimming pools. Full service hotels generally provide a significant array of guest services, including room service, valet services and laundry. Two of Patriot's independent hotels, the Bourbon Orleans Hotel in New Orleans and the Fairmount Hotel in San Antonio, are luxury hotels in major U.S. tourist markets. These hotels offer a broader range of
amenities and services than traditional full service hotels. The Tremont House Hotel in Boston, which is in the process of completing a major renovation, operates as an upscale full service hotel in a major U.S. market.
Patriot owns four limited service hotels aggregating 447 guest rooms, which target both business and leisure travelers. Patriot's limited service hotels consist of four Hampton Inns(R). Limited service hotels generally have limited or no meeting space. Hotels operating in this market segment generally seek to minimize operational costs by offering only those basic services required by travelers. Because they cater to both business and leisure travelers, limited service hotels generally maintain relatively consistent occupancy on weekdays and weekends.
Patriot owns five resort properties including The Registry(R) Resort and Spa in Fort Lauderdale, Florida (formerly the Bonaventure Resort and Spa) and the four Carefree(R) resort properties which were acquired in January 1997. Resorts are designed to offer unique destinations which appeal to today's sophisticated vacation traveler and to blend with their environment, enhancing the natural surroundings with design that fits the locale. Each resort's recreational activities are of the highest caliber and are designed to capitalize on the natural attractions of the location. Many offer a combination of golf, tennis, skiing, a health spa, hiking or other sports.
Patriot owns one conference center with 250 guest rooms, which targets corporate and other executive groups. Conference centers are distinguishable from traditional full service hotels in that they are dedicated, designed and equipped to handle all services for large meetings and conferences. Conference centers typically offer state-of-the-art meeting and conference rooms, with a full complement of business support services. Conference centers generally include banquet and ballroom facilities, and restaurant and bar facilities. In addition, facilities generally include a fitness center, swimming pool and tennis courts. Because of the specialized nature of conference centers, there are relatively few such properties in the U.S.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
The following table sets forth certain information for the year ended December 31, 1996 with respect to the hotels Patriot owned as of December 31, 1996. This information reflects actual operating results of the hotels both prior and subsequent to acquisition by Patriot.
see Notes on following page.
______________________ (1) REVPAR is determined by dividing room revenue by available rooms for the applicable period. (2) This hotel secures the Line of Credit as of March 18, 1997. (3) The Crowne Plaza Ravinia Hotel is owned by PAH Ravinia, Inc., an unconsolidated subsidiary of Patriot. The hotel acquisition was structured without a lessee. Holiday Inns, Inc. manages the hotel for PAH Ravinia, Inc. (4) The Marriott WindWatch Hotel is owned by PAH Windwatch, LLC, an unconsolidated subsidiary of Patriot. The hotel acquisition was structured without a lessee. Marriott International, Inc. manages the hotel for PAH Windwatch, LLC. (5) Subsequent to December 31, 1996, Patriot acquired eight hotel properties with an aggregate 1,331 guest rooms and, as a result, as of March 18, 1997, Patriot owns 54 hotels in 21 states, with an aggregate of 12,671 guest rooms.
ACQUISITIONS SUBSEQUENT TO YEAR END
Subsequent to year end, Patriot acquired the following hotel and resort properties:
(1) This hotel secures the Line of Credit
THE PARTICIPATING LEASES
Patriot leases each of the hotels, except the Crowne Plaza Ravinia Hotel and the Marriott WindWatch Hotel which are owned through special purpose corporations, to the Lessees pursuant to separate Participating Leases. Following is a summary description of the major provisions of the Participating Leases with each of CHC Lease Partners, NorthCoast, the Wyndham Lessee, the Doubletree Lessee, the Grand Heritage Lessee, and Metro Lease Partners.
The Patriot Partnership leases a total of 25 hotels, including the Radisson Hotel in Overland Park, Kansas which was acquired in January 1997, to CHC Lease Partners for staggered terms between ten and twelve years pursuant to separate Participating Leases that provide for rent equal to the greater of Base Rent or Participating Rent, plus certain additional charges as applicable. In addition, Patriot and CHC Lease Partners have entered into a Lease Master Agreement (the "Lease Master Agreement"), which sets forth CHC Lease Partners' required capitalization and certain other matters. Nine of the hotels are leased to NorthCoast, six hotels are leased to Doubletree Lessee, Wyndham Lessee leases two hotels and Metro Lease Partners leases one hotel under similar Participating Lease agreements. Grand Heritage Lessee leases three hotels (including the Holiday Inn Redmont Hotel which was acquired in March 1997). The following outlines in general terms the basic structure of the Participating Lease agreements.
Participating Lease Terms.
The Participating Leases have an average term of approximately eleven years, with various expiration dates through 2008, subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain contingencies described in the Participating Leases (including, particularly, irreparable damage or destruction of the hotel, condemnation of the hotel property, failure to meet performance goals, or disposition of the hotel). The variation of the lease terms is intended to provide Patriot protection from the risk inherent in simultaneous lease expirations.
Base Rent; Participating Rent; Additional Charges.
In general, each Participating Lease requires the Lessee to pay (i) the greater of Base Rent in a fixed amount or Participating Rent based on certain percentages of room revenue, food and beverage revenue and telephone and other revenue at each hotel leased by it and (ii) certain Additional Charges, including interest accrued on any late payments. Base Rent and Participating Rent departmental thresholds increase annually by a percentage equal to the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index ("CPI," defined as the United States Consumer Price Index, All Urban Consumers, U.S. City Average, All Items, 1982-84 = 100), compared to the prior year (generally CPI percentage increase plus a specified basis point amount, in the case of the Participating Rent departmental thresholds). Base Rent is required to be paid monthly in arrears by the first day of each calendar month, and Participating Rent is payable monthly in arrears on the tenth day of each calendar month and is calculated based on the year-to-date departmental receipts as of the end of the preceding month, and a prorated amount of each of the applicable departmental thresholds determined based on the month, or portion thereof, of the fiscal year for which the calculation is being made, and crediting against such amount the total Participating Rent previously paid for such fiscal year and the cumulative Base Rent paid for such fiscal year as of the end of the preceding month. A final adjustment of the Participating Rent for each fiscal year is made, based on audited statements of revenue for each hotel.
Insurance and Property Taxes.
In general, Patriot is responsible for paying (i) real estate and personal property taxes on the hotels (except to the extent that personal property associated with the hotels is owned by the Lessee), (ii) casualty insurance on the hotels, (iii) business interruption insurance on the hotels, and (iv) ground rent with respect to certain of the hotels. The Lessees are required to pay for all liability insurance on the hotels it leases, with extended coverage, including comprehensive general public liability, workers' compensation and other insurance appropriate and customary for properties similar to the hotels, with Patriot as an additional named insured.
Management Fees.
The Lessees have entered into Management Agreements with the Operators to operate and manage each of the hotels leased from Patriot. These agreements provide for management fees based upon a percentage of total revenues at each of the hotels managed by them. The Management Agreements for these hotels provide for management fees which range from 1% to 5% of total revenues. Certain management fees paid by the Lessees are subject to limitations related to results of operations of the hotels leased by it. The Participating Leases provide that certain payments to the Operators from the Lessees are subordinate to the Lessees' obligations to Patriot. Generally, in the event of the termination of any of the Participating Leases with the Lessees, the related Mangement Agreement will also terminate.
Maintenance and Improvements.
The Participating Leases obligate Patriot to establish annually a reserve for capital improvements at the hotels leased to the Lessees (including the periodic replacement and refurbishment of F, F & E). Patriot and the Lessees agree on the use of funds in these reserves, and Patriot has the right to approve the Lessees' annual and long-term capital expenditure budgets. The aggregate minimum amount of such reserves average 4.0% of total revenue for the hotels leased to the Lessees. Patriot, at its election, may choose to expend more than 4.0% on any hotel. Any unexpended amounts will remain the property of Patriot upon termination of the Participating Leases. Otherwise, the Lessees are required, at their own expense, to keep their leased hotels in good order and repair, except for ordinary wear and tear, and to make repairs (other than capital repairs) which may be necessary and appropriate to keep the hotels in good order and repair.
Events of Default.
The Participating Leases and the Lease Master Agreement with CHC Lease Partners specify various events of default under each of the Participating Leases. In addition, certain events of default will result in a cross-default of certain other Participating Leases. Events of default under the Participating Leases and the Lease Master Agreement include, among others, (i) the failure of the Lessee to (a) pay Base or Participating Rent when due, (b) pay for required insurance, or (c) maintain minimum net worth; (ii) the Lessees' bankruptcy or similar event; (iii) the Lessees' liquidation or dissolution; (iv) the Lessees' failure to observe or perform the terms of the Participating Lease upon notice and an opportunity to cure; (v) the Lessees' voluntarily discontinuation of operation of a hotel for more than 30 days; (vi) a
default under the Franchise License with respect to a hotel as a result of the action or inaction of the Lessees or their agents.
Indemnification.
In general, under each of the Participating Leases, each Lessee indemnifies and holds Patriot harmless from and against all liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by, imposed upon or asserted against Patriot on account of, among other things, (i) any accident or injury to persons or property on or about the hotels, (ii) any misuse by the Lessee or any of its agents of the leased property, (iii) any environmental liability caused or resulting from any action or negligence of the Lessee; (iv) taxes and assessments in respect of the hotels leased to the Lessee (other than real estate and personal property taxes and income taxes of Patriot on income attributable to the hotels leased to the Lessee and capital impositions); (v) the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages on or in the real property or improvements thereon; or (vi) any breach of the Participating Leases by the Lessee; provided, however, that such indemnification will not be construed to require the Lessee to indemnify Patriot against Patriot's own grossly negligent acts or omissions or willful misconduct.
Assignment and Subleasing.
The Lessees are not permitted to sublet all or any part of the hotels leased to it or assign its interest under any of the Participating Leases, other than to an affiliate, without the prior written consent of Patriot. Patriot has generally agreed to consent to any sublease of a retail portion of the hotels leased to the Lessees (provided such sublease will not cause any rents to fail to qualify as "rents from real property" for REIT purposes). No assignment or subletting will release the Lessee from any of its obligations under the Participating Leases.
Participating Lease Modifications.
In the event that (i) a Franchise License is terminated under circumstances that do not constitute an event of default or (ii) Patriot approves the conversion of a sublessee of a hotel into an operating department thereof or vice versa, the applicable Participating Lease provisions will be modified accordingly.
Franchise License.
The Lessees are the licensees under each of the Franchise Licenses on the hotels leased to it. The franchisors have agreed that upon the occurrence of certain events of default by a Lessee under a Franchise License, the franchisors will transfer the Franchise License for the hotel to Patriot (or its designee) or make other arrangements to continue the hotel as part of the franchisor's system.
Inventory.
In general, the inventory required in the operation of the hotels leased by a Lessee was transferred to the Lessee upon acquisition of the hotel. Upon termination of a related Participating Lease, the Lessee shall surrender the related hotel together with all such inventory to Patriot.
Lessee Capitalization and Minimum Net Worth Requirements.
While the Lessees' ability to make rent payments under the applicable Participating Leases is dependent primarily upon its ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations of the hotels that it leases, the minimum net worth requirements are designed to provide a source of funds to make such payments and to fund operational shortfalls if operating cash flow is inadequate. The minimum net worth is composed of certain components in specified amounts which generally exclude intangible assets as defined by generally accepted accounting principles.
CHC Lease Partners. CHC Lease Partners is required to maintain a minimum net worth, as defined in the Lease Master Agreement, equal to the greater of (i) $10 million or (ii) 17.5% of the initial projected annual lease payments for all hotels leased by Patriot to CHC Lease Partners. This minimum net worth includes $4.0 million of cash and working capital, and CHC Lease Partners is required to maintain adequate working capital for the term of the Participating Leases for those hotels that it leases.
Until October 1998, $4.0 million of CHC Lease Partners' capitalization is pledged to Patriot and shall be forfeited by CHC Lease Partners in the event that during this period, the Participating Leases are terminated following an event of default or termination for failure to maintain the minimum net worth or to meet performance goals (as defined in the Participating Lease and the Master Lease Agreement) under one or more of the leases. A termination of or default under fewer than all of the Participating Leases will result in a forfeiture of a pro rata portion of such amount. Such forfeiture will not alter CHC Lease Partners' obligations in the event of a default, and CHC Lease Partners' total remaining capitalization will remain available to satisfy such obligations.
NorthCoast. NorthCoast is required to maintain a minimum net worth, as defined, equal to 20% of the projected annual lease payments for all the hotels leased by NorthCoast. The minimum net worth must be composed of certain components in specified amounts, including at least 15% in cash or certain cash equivalents. No more than 25% of the minimum net worth can be composed of a promissory note secured by an interest in the LeParc Investment Group, LLC. NorthCoast is also required to maintain ownership of shares of common stock of Patriot or OP Units.
Wyndham Lessee. The obligations of the Wyndham Lessee under the Wyndham Participating Leases are guaranteed by the Wyndham Guarantor, a separate entity formed by members of the Trammell Crow family. The Wyndham Guarantor is required to maintain a minimum net worth equal to 20% of the current year's budgeted lease payments for the hotels leased by the Wyndham Lessee (unless the total number of rooms in all hotels leased by the parties increases to above 1,585, in which case the required percentage will decrease to 17.5%).
The Wyndham Lessee has covenanted that if any interest in the Wyndham Lessee is transferred outside the Trammell Crow family, the Patriot Partnership may terminate the Wyndham Participating Leases if, in the reasonable judgment of the Patriot Partnership, the party newly in control of the Wyndham Lessee is not competent in that capacity or is a competitor of the Patriot Partnership.
Doubletree Lessee. The Doubletree Lessee is required to maintain a minimum net worth equal to the greater of $400,000 or 20% of the current year's budgeted lease payments.
The Doubletree Lessee has covenanted that no interest in the Doubletree Lessee will be transferred outside the control of Doubletree Hotels Corporation, provided that, if through merger or sale of assets the Doubletree Lessee ceases to be controlled by the Doubletree Hotels Corporation, the Patriot Partnership may terminate the Participating Lease for the hotels only if, in the reasonable judgment of the Patriot Partnership, the party newly in control of the Doubletree Lessee is not competent in that capacity or is a competitor of the Patriot Partnership.
Grand Heritage Lessee. The obligations of the Grand Heritage Lessee under the Grand Heritage Participating Leases are guaranteed by GHBC, L.L.C. (the "Grand Heritage Guarantor"), a limited liability company formed by certain members of the Grand Heritage Control Group (as defined below). The Grand Heritage Guarantor is required to maintain a minimum net worth equal to 25% of the current year's budgeted lease payments for the hotels leased by the Grand Heritage Lessee (unless Grand Heritage Lessee leases hotels in addition to The Mayfair , The Tutwiler and the Union Station Hotel which is a proposed acquisition, in which case the required percentage will decrease to 20%).
The Grand Heritage Lessee has covenanted that no interest in the Grand Heritage Lessee will be transferred outside the control of Messrs. John Cullen, David Burrus, William Burrus, Peter Thomas or George Newton or their affiliates (the "Grand Heritage Control Group"), provided that, if through merger or sale of assets the Grand Heritage Lessee ceases to be controlled by members of the Grand Heritage Control Group, the Patriot Partnership may terminate the Participating Lease for the hotels only if, in the reasonable judgment of the Patriot Partnership, the party newly in control of the Grand Heritage Lessee is not competent in that capacity or is a competitor of the Patriot Partnership.
Metro Lease Partners. Metro Lease Partners is required to maintain a minimum net worth of $515,000, which represents approximately 25% of estimated Participating Rent in 1996 for the hotel it leases.
Right of First Offer
CHC Lease Partners has a right of first offer to lease additional hotels acquired by Patriot until October 1997. The right of first offer does not apply in the event that in the reasonable business judgment of Patriot's Board of Directors (a) a different lessee is necessary for Patriot to have the opportunity to acquire the hotel, or (b) CHC Lease Partners is unqualified or inappropriate to be the lessee of the hotel. Under the right of first offer, Patriot gives CHC Lease Partners
written notice of the economic terms on which it is willing to lease the hotel. CHC Lease Partners has 30 days following such notice to agree to lease the hotel on such terms and, if it fails to do so, Patriot may lease the hotel to another lessee on terms and conditions that are not economically less favorable to Patriot than those offered to CHC Lease Partners. CHC Lease Partners also shall have the right to lease acquired hotels (on mutually satisfactory terms) where it brings the acquisition opportunity to Patriot.
The Wyndham Lessee does not have a right of first offer to lease additional hotels acquired by Patriot. The Wyndham Lessee has the right to terminate the Participating Lease on the Wyndham Greenspoint Hotel or the Wyndham Garden - Midtown Hotel or to purchase the hotel in question pursuant to a right of first refusal, in the event that the Patriot Partnership elects to sell such hotel and the sale is to be made without terminating the applicable Participating Lease.
NorthCoast, Doubletree Lessee, Grand Heritage Lessee, and Metro Lease Partners do not have the right of first offer to lease additional hotels from Patriot.
Crowne Plaza Ravinia Hotel
The Crowne Plaza Ravinia Hotel, which is owned by an unconsolidated subsidiary of Patriot, is not operated by a lessee. The hotel is being managed by Holiday Inns, Inc. for a period of ten years (with two renewal terms of five years each) pursuant to a management agreement between PAH Ravinia, Inc. ("PAH Ravinia") and Holiday Inns, Inc. Under the terms of the management agreement, Holiday Inns, Inc. receives base management fees equal to 4% of gross room revenue, a portion of which is subordinated to the payment of a return on PAH Ravinia's invested capital of 10.5% per annum. The management agreement also provides for payment of an incentive fee to Holiday Inns, Inc., subject to PAH Ravinia's receipt of an aggregate 12.5% per annum return on invested capital.
Marriott WindWatch Hotel
The Marriott WindWatch Hotel, which is owned by PAH Windwatch, L.L.C. ("PAH Windwatch"), an unconsolidated subsidiary of Patriot, is not operated by a lessee. The hotel is being managed by Marriott International, Inc. Pursuant to the Purchase and Sale agreement dated March 15, 1996, the existing management agreement has been terminated and PAH Windwatch is currently negotiating the terms of a new agreement. Until such time a new agreement is reached, Marriott International, Inc. will continue to manage the Marriott WindWatch Hotel under the terms of the prior agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, Marriott International, Inc. receives an annual base management fee equal to 5% of gross receipts. In addition, in any year the hotel generates a profit, as defined in the agreement, Marriott International, Inc. will receive an amount equal to the excess of 15% of the profit over the base management fee.
FRANCHISE AND BRAND AFFILIATIONS
As of March 18, 1997, 49 of Patriot's hotels are operated under franchise or brand affiliations with nationally recognized hotel companies. Franchisors and brand operators provide a variety of benefits for hotels which include national advertising, publicity and other marketing programs designed to increase brand awareness, training of personnel, continuous review of quality standards and centralized reservation systems.
The Franchise Licenses generally specify certain management, operational, record keeping, accounting, reporting and marketing standards and procedures with which the Lessees must comply. The Franchise Licenses obligate the Lessees to comply with the franchisors' standards and requirements with respect to training of operational personnel, safety, maintaining specified insurance, the types of services and products ancillary to guest room services that may be provided by the Lessees, display of signage, and the type, quality and age of F, F & E included in guest rooms, lobbies and other common areas.
The Franchise Licenses provide for termination at the franchisor's option upon the occurrence of certain events, including the Lessees' failure to pay franchise royalties and fees or perform its other covenants under the license agreement, bankruptcy, abandonment of the franchise, commission of a felony, assignment of the license without the consent of the franchisor, or failure to comply with applicable law in the operation of the relevant hotel. The Lessees are not entitled to terminate the Franchise License unless they receive the prior written consent of Patriot. The license agreements will not renew automatically upon expiration. The Lessees are responsible for making all payments under the franchise agreements to the franchisors. Under the franchise agreements, the Lessees pay franchise royalties and fees
ranging from 3.5% to 8% of room revenue, except in the case of the Marriott Hotel in Troy, Michigan where the franchise royalties and fee equals 6% of room revenue and 3% of food and beverage revenue.
The Lessees' rights related to branded hotels are generally contained in the Management Agreements related to those hotels. The Lessees do not pay additional franchise royalties or fees other than those specified in the Management Agreements for use of the brands. Generally the Lessees' rights to use the brands terminate upon any termination of the applicable Management Agreements.
INSURANCE
Patriot carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and business interruption insurance with respect to all of its hotels, with policy specifications, insured limits and deductibles customarily carried for similar properties. Patriot will carry similar insurance with respect to any other properties developed or acquired in the future. Patriot's management believes its hotel investments are adequately insured in accordance with industry standards.
ITEM 3.