ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
[MAP]
KHALDA CONCESSION
The Company, exploring on its own, initially discovered commercial quantities of oil and gas in 1985 in the Khalda Concession in the Western Desert of Egypt. The Khalda Concession currently consists of 2.4 million acres: 318,500 acres which are held by production, plus the Khalda Offset block, consisting of 2.1 million acres of exploratory acreage. The Khalda Concession is located in the Western Desert of Egypt, 50 miles inland from the Mediterranean coast and 140 miles west of Alexandria, Egypt. This area of Egypt has no significant populations, although several small towns are scattered along the Mediterranean coast. The Khalda Concession is governed by the Khalda Concession Agreement, a petroleum production sharing arrangement authorized and approved by the Egyptian Parliament between EGPC and the Khalda Partners consisting of the Company, Repsol and Samsung.
Operations. The Khalda Concession is operated by Khalda Petroleum Company, a non-profit Egyptian corporation with approximately 525 employees, that is jointly owned by the Khalda Partners and EGPC. Approximately half of Khalda Petroleum Company's employees are operational field employees and the remainder work in its headquarters office in a suburb of Cairo. Almost all employees of Khalda Petroleum Company are Egyptian nationals, complemented by about ten Repsol employees in various technical and management capacities. The Company owns 20% of the capital stock of Khalda Petroleum Company and designates two of the eight members of Khalda Petroleum Company's board of directors. The other members are designated by Repsol and EGPC.
From inception of the Khalda Concession through 1995, capital investments of approximately $450 million have been made in the Khalda Concession (approximately 9% by the Company). As a result, 52 exploratory wells and 124 development and service wells have been drilled and crude oil is now being produced from 15 oil fields.
Total gross exploration and development expenditures of approximately $24 million were made by the Khalda Partners with respect to the Khalda Concession during 1995 (approximately $3.1 million by the Company). This includes the cost of drilling seven exploratory wells and 12 development and service wells.
The seven wildcat wells drilled in 1995 on the Khalda Concession resulted in the discovery of four new fields: (i) In July 1995 the Nader wildcat was drilled to a total depth of 9,450 feet and discovered oil in Cretaceous sands. The discovery well was immediately connected to production facilities, and through December 31, 1995, had produced at an average rate of approximately 485 barrels of oil per day; (ii) In September 1995 the Salam South discovery, drilled to a total depth of 10,115 feet, tested at a combined rate of 45.1 million cubic feet of gas and 2,695 barrels of condensate per day from Lower Cretaceous sands. This gas field is shut-in, but additional appraisal and exploratory work in the area is anticipated; (iii) In December 1995 the Salam Southeast well, drilled to a depth of 10,075 feet, was tested at a rate of 1,855 barrels of 38 API gravity oil per day and 2.9 million cubic feet of gas per day from Lower Cretaceous sands. The well was immediately put on production; and (iv) In December 1995 the Tut Deep well, drilled to a total depth of 13,400 feet, flowed at a combined rate of 59.7 million cubic feet of gas and 5,880 barrels of oil and condensate per day. Electric log analysis indicated approximately 260 feet of net hydrocarbon pay was encountered in Jurassic age sandstones. This well immediately began production from the oil zone at around 1,000 barrels of oil per day, but the gas zones are shut-in.
During 1996 oil and gas exploration and development on the Khalda Concession is expected to continue at approximately the same investment level as 1995, with the planned drilling of eight exploratory wells (including two on the Khalda Offset block) and at least ten development and service wells.
Production. The central production facilities are located at the Salam field which is near the center of the productive area. With the major facilities centrally located, outlying fields are brought on line with minimal additional facility investment. Oil production and associated natural gas production from the Salam and outlying fields are sent through a gathering system to the central production facilities for separation and treatment. In addition to primary separation of the oil production, the central facilities supply necessary electrical power to the fields for artificial lift and send water for injection to the fields where waterflooding is required. The central facilities consist of two primary separation trains which together can process up to 40,000 barrels of oil per day and a water injection system which can distribute up to 40,000 barrels of water per day to most fields in the Khalda Concession. A crude oil recovery enhancement unit removes the heavier hydrocarbon components from the associated natural gas production and blends the resulting liquids with the
crude oil production. Field personnel generally work seven-day shifts and are housed at the central facility crew quarters. Personnel rotations are accomplished by air flights which land at the air strip shared with the Meleiha Concession, in which the Company has no interest.
After crude oil is gathered and processed at the Salam central facilities, it is transported via pipeline through El Hamra and on to Egyptian refineries in the Sidi Kirir area. The major portion of the pipeline, a 110-mile, 16-inch pipeline with design capacity of 90,000 barrels per day, is shared with other Western Desert concessions. Associated gas from the Khalda Concession is transported north from the central facilities via a 50-mile pipeline to an electrical power generation station in Mersah Matruh.
Crude oil production from the Khalda Concession commenced in late 1986. Cumulative oil production through 1995 on the Khalda Concession has been approximately 87.6 million barrels. During 1995 average daily gross oil production from the Khalda Concession was approximately 30,947 barrels. Sales of associated gas commenced during 1991, and averaged approximately 2.3 MMcf per day during 1995. Gross production costs for the Khalda Concession in 1995 were $1.34 per equivalent oil barrel. Waterfloods for additional recovery of oil have been started in most fields. Studies are being conducted to develop plans for future exploratory, development and delineation drilling.
Western Desert Natural Gas. Exploration activities in the Khalda Concession have resulted in the discovery of significant quantities of gas, most of which is currently shut-in. While sales of associated natural gas to Mersah Matruh have been made in nominal amounts since 1991, Khalda's natural gas fields will remain shut-in until a pipeline is constructed to provide access to major natural gas markets. In addition to a pipeline, significant process facilities and development drilling investment will be required to produce the natural gas fields. As of December 31, 1995 there were an estimated 120.2 Bcf of gross proved remaining gas reserves in the Khalda Concession, much of which is undeveloped. Significant quantities of gas (including natural gas discovered in Tarek, Tut Deep, Shams and Salam South) cannot be classified as proved due to lack of access to market. Gross proved reserves of natural gas consist only of gas estimated for sale to Mersah Matruh and therefore include only associated gas and certain gas well gas from the Salam Deep and Amoun reservoirs.
In recent years, Western Desert gas exploration activities near the Khalda Concession have increased and significant discoveries of natural gas have been made by the Khalda Partners, Repsol, The Royal Dutch/Shell Group, Norsk Hydro a.s. and Agip S.p.A. Natural gas exploration activities continue to be conducted by the Khalda Partners within the Khalda Concession and also by these major oil and gas companies in nearby concessions in which the Company owns no interests. The Khalda Concession currently has six shut-in gas fields. The six discovery wells in these fields tested at a total aggregate rate of approximately 150 million cubic feet per day during initial production testing.
Engineering studies and discussions pertaining to the possibility of a major, coordinated Western Desert natural gas pipeline project are ongoing among EGPC, the Khalda Partners and other oil and gas companies operating in the vicinity of Khalda. A heightened level of activity is now ongoing relating to a potential pipeline connecting natural gas discoveries in the Western Desert with Egypt's natural gas grid. It is becoming clear that such a pipeline will be built, but the actual timing of such a project is not yet fixed. There is no assurance that this pipeline will ever be constructed and, if constructed, gas sales would not commence until at least two years after plans for the pipeline are finalized. Due to significant uncertainties regarding this project, it is currently not possible to quantify the Company's potential investment in this project, if any. However, if such a pipeline is constructed, the amount of investment by the Company in the development of the shut-in gas fields, and possibly in the construction of the trunk line, would very possibly be significantly higher than the Company's current level of
capital expenditures in Khalda. Under the Khalda Concession Agreement, any such investment by the Khalda Partners, like most costs associated with the Khalda Concession, would be recoverable out of both oil and gas production.
The construction of a new 600-megawatt natural gas fired generating facility is underway at Sidi Kirir, which is located approximately 120 miles east of the Khalda Concession. The government of Egypt has announced that it expects to complete construction in late 1998 or 1999. EGPC has informally suggested that the Khalda Partners and other oil and gas companies operating in the Western Desert tentatively plan to deliver their natural gas to this facility via a pipeline. There is no assurance that this facility will be constructed on schedule, that agreements will be entered into for the purchase of the Khalda Concession's gas or that arrangements will be entered into for the construction of the pipeline to this facility. EGPC could decide to obtain natural gas for this facility from other sources; alternatively, Western Desert natural gas could be sold to other users.
Reserves. The table below shows the gross proved reserves estimated to remain in the Khalda Concession as of the dates shown. Because all of the foreseeable needs of the Mersah Matruh market can be met by associated gas and other Khalda natural gas fields, and because no other firm arrangements have otherwise been made for the sale of natural gas from the Khalda Concession, the gas reserves associated with the Tarek, Tut Deep, Salam South and Shams discoveries have not been classified as proved reserves. The reduced amount of gas reserves estimated for 1995 reflects solely a lowered assumption in regard to the amount of gas which will be sold through the existing pipeline to Mersah Matruh.
Khalda Offset Acreage. In 1995 the Khalda Partners were awarded the right to conduct petroleum activities in the Khalda Offset block. The Khalda Offset block, which contains 2.1 million acres, adjoins and generally surrounds the existing Khalda Concession and other producing acreage. Under the agreement, which has been enacted into Egyptian law, the Khalda Partners will drill at least seven wells and spend a minimum of $8 million during the initial exploration phase of four years. The Khalda Partners have the option to extend the exploratory phase of the Khalda Offset area by up to an additional five years by committing to additional drilling and financial requirements. However, over time certain percentages of the acreage not converted to development leases must be relinquished.
During 1995 the Khalda partners acquired new seismic data and reprocessed old seismic data on the Khalda Offset block. Plans are to drill two exploratory wells on the block during the latter half of 1996.
General Description of the Khalda Concession Agreement. Under the Khalda Concession Agreement, the Khalda Partners pay 100% of capital and operating costs and the production is split between EGPC and the Khalda Partners. Up to 40% of the oil and gas produced and sold from the Khalda Concession is available to the Khalda Partners to recover costs ("cost recovery petroleum"). Cost recovery petroleum forms a single, unified pool for the entire concession from which costs of all fields, zones, products and types may be recovered
without differentiation, except that operating costs are recovered prior to the recovery of any capital costs. Capital costs (which include exploration, development and other equipment and facilities costs) are amortized for recovery over four years while operating expenses are recoverable on a current basis. To the extent that costs eligible for recovery in any quarter exceed the amount of cost recovery petroleum produced and sold in that quarter, such costs are recoverable from cost recovery petroleum in future quarters with no limit on the ability to carry forward such costs.
The remaining 60% of oil and gas produced and sold ("profit petroleum"), together with any cost recovery petroleum not used for the recovery of costs ("excess cost recovery petroleum"), is divided between EGPC and the Khalda Partners. All Egyptian income taxes and Egyptian government royalties attributable to the Khalda Partners on their share of production from the Khalda Concession are paid by EGPC out of EGPC's share of production.
The Khalda Partners' percentage of the oil segment of profit petroleum and excess cost recovery petroleum ("profit oil" and "excess cost recovery oil") is applied to increments of production based on the gross daily average of oil production determined on a quarterly basis as follows:
In addition, if natural gas sales to EGPC average over 12 billion BTUs per day during any six-month period ending June 30 or December 31, each of the above percentages is reduced by two percentage points.
The Khalda Partners' percentage of the gas segment of profit petroleum and excess cost recovery petroleum is 20%, except that the Khalda Partners' share is 23% of the first 15 MMcf per day of gas produced and sold from areas other than the Tarek field.
The Khalda Offset agreement is an amendment to the Khalda Concession Agreement. Under the agreement, the Khalda Offset block has been added to the Khalda Concession. If and when commercial production from the Khalda Offset block begins, the recovery of past and future costs and sharing of profit and excess profit petroleum will be unified with the currently existing structure of the Khalda Concession pursuant to all of its existing terms. If commercial production is not established on the Khalda Offset block, none of the expenditures for the Khalda Offset block will be cost recoverable.
Of the $445 million of capital expenditures recoverable from petroleum production incurred by the Khalda Partners from inception through 1995, approximately $42 million remained unrecovered at year-end 1995. The Company's share of such unrecovered costs was approximately $4.5 million, which amount will be recovered over the next four years. Currently, all capital expenditures in the Khalda Concession are being completely recovered as amortized over four years.
Egypt retains the right of requisition of the Khalda Concession production and cancellation of the Khalda Concession Agreement upon the occurrence of specific events,
including a national emergency due to war, imminent expectation of war or internal causes, unauthorized assignment of interests in the Khalda Concession, the Khalda Partners being adjudicated bankrupt by a court of competent jurisdiction and intentional extraction of any mineral not authorized by the Khalda Concession Agreement. Requisition or cancellation as a result of the foregoing or for any other reasons would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
General Description of Contractor Arrangements. The economic relationships among the Khalda Partners are governed principally by the Khalda Concession farmout agreement entered into in 1985 and amended in 1989 after natural gas rights were added to the Khalda Concession Agreement.
Operating and overhead expenses of Khalda Petroleum Company and Repsol, as partnership operator, are paid by the parties as follows: 50% by Repsol, 40% by the Company and 10% by Samsung. Capital expenditures are split among the parties in two different ways: well costs are generally split depending upon the geological objective of the wells and the surface location of the well, while surface costs are generally split depending upon the nature of the product involved. In general, Repsol pays 100% of the costs of shallow (generally oil) wells, while deeper (generally gas) wells are split 50%, 40% and 10% among Repsol, the Company and Samsung, respectively. The distinction between shallow and deeper wells for this purpose is determined by reference to various geological markers and is generally at a depth of approximately 10,500 feet. Moreover, in the Salam, Amoun and Shams areas the cost splitting is more favorable to the Company and Samsung at the expense of Repsol. In the Khalda Offset block all capital and operating costs are to be split 50%, 40% and 10% among Repsol, the Company and Samsung, respectively.
The vast majority of the well costs to date have been paid by Repsol, either because the costs were incurred in areas where Repsol was required to pay 100% of the costs, or because the costs were incurred prior to gas rights being added to the Khalda Concession Agreement when Repsol was required to pay all capital costs.
Surface costs for oil are paid 100% by Repsol and for gas are paid 50%, 40% and 10% by Repsol, the Company and Samsung, respectively. Accordingly, the Company was required to pay 40% of the costs of the gas pipeline to Mersah Matruh and would be required to pay 40% of the Khalda Concession's share, if any, of any unified Western Desert natural gas pipeline, should it be constructed.
Each member of the Khalda Partners is entitled to recover its operating expenses from cost recovery petroleum prior to the recovery of any capital costs. After operating expenses are recovered, the remaining increment of cost recovery petroleum is split among members of the Khalda Partners pro rata to their respective shares of unrecovered capital costs.
The Khalda Partners' share of profit petroleum and excess cost recovery petroleum is generally divided 50% to Repsol, 40% to the Company and 10% to Samsung after payment of a 3% royalty on the Khalda Partners share of profit oil and excess cost recovery oil. Moreover, a special arrangement applies to oil production from the Salam field, whereby the Company receives a more favorable split of such profit oil.
QARUN CONCESSION
In April 1993 the Qarun Partners were awarded the right to conduct petroleum exploration activities on the Qarun Concession, a 1.9 million acre block located immediately southwest of Cairo. Most of the concession consists of barren desert terrain, but the concession also contains Lake Qarun, the city of Fayoum and fertile areas alongside the Nile River. The
Qarun Concession is governed by the Qarun Concession Agreement, a petroleum production sharing arrangement authorized and approved by the Egyptian Parliament between EGPC and the Qarun Partners. The Company is the partnership operator and owns a 50% interest, with subsidiaries of Apache Corporation and Global Natural Resources each owning 25%.
After reprocessing 3,000 kilometers of old seismic and acquiring 500 kilometers of new seismic, the Qarun Partners drilled their first exploratory well in 1994. Logs of the well indicated significant zones of oil pay in Lower Cretaceous zones of what is now called the Qarun A oil field, but the well was lost prior to testing. A second exploratory well, tested in early 1995, encountered a smaller oil field, now referred to as the Qarun B field, but was determined to be fault separated from the first. A third exploratory well was drilled on the original structure and was successfully completed and tested in May 1995. The third well encountered a total of 305 net feet of oil pay in Lower Cretaceous sands, flowed at a cumulative rate of 11,957 barrels of oil per day and confirmed the existence of the Qarun A field.
In August 1995 the commerciality of the Qarun oil fields was declared, the area around the Qarun fields was converted to a development lease and a new operating company, Qarun Petroleum Company, was established to operate the concession. Qarun Petroleum Company is a non-profit Egyptian corporation jointly owned by the Qarun Partners and EGPC. Qarun Petroleum Company currently has approximately 60 employees. Almost all employees of Qarun Petroleum Company are Egyptian nationals, complemented by five representatives of the Company in various technical and management capacities. It is expected that the number of Qarun Petroleum employees will increase over time. The Company owns 25% of the capital stock of Qarun Petroleum Company and designates four of the eight members of its board of directors. The other four members are designated by EGPC.
Since August 1995, significant progress has been made in the fabrication and construction of processing facilities, pipelines and storage tanks. Production from the Qarun oil fields will be gathered and processed through a central processing facility located in the fields. A 16-inch gas pipeline crosses the concession near where the facilities are being constructed. The central facilities currently under construction are designed to have a nominal capacity of 40,000 barrels of oil per day. After processing, the crude oil will be sent through a 50-kilometer, 16-inch buried pipeline, which has already been laid, to the Dahshour pumping station of the Sumed pipeline.
The Sumed pipeline is an internationally owned pipeline designed to transport crude oil across Egypt from the Red Sea at Ain Sukhna to the Mediterranean Sea at Sidi Kirir. The pipeline is principally used by supertankers too large to transport oil through the Suez Canal and currently transports about 1.8 million barrels a day through two parallel 42-inch pipelines. Midway on the pipeline route, a pumping station at Dahshour is used to facilitate transport.
Qarun Petroleum Company is currently constructing two 350,000 barrel storage tanks at Dahshour. The tanks will be used to store crude oil until sufficient quantities have accumulated to make a bulk shipment through the Sumed pipeline. At that time, the crude oil will be sent to the Sidi Kirir terminal facility, from which it will be exported or sent via pipeline to Egyptian refineries.
While these facilities are being constructed, development drilling is continuing in the Qarun field. Through January 1996 five wells capable of producing crude oil had been completed in the larger Qarun field, known as the Qarun A field, and one well in the smaller Qarun B field. An additional two development wells were being drilled during February 1996. A 250-square kilometer 3-D seismic program was shot over the Qarun fields in 1995. This data is now being interpreted to facilitate future development drilling in the Qarun fields and exploratory drilling in the immediate vicinity.
Early production from the Qarun fields via trucking commenced at the end of November 1995. By February 1996 oil was being trucked at rates in excess of 5,000 barrels of oil per day. Early production is being trucked 75 kilometers to Tebbin where it is then sent via pipeline shipments to the Mostorod refinery in Cairo. Additional construction activity is in progress, which could increase trucking volumes to 7,000 barrels of oil per day.
Through December 31, 1995 the Qarun Partners had invested an aggregate of approximately $50 million. It is currently estimated that crude oil production will commence through the permanent facilities by the end of 1996 and that by that time the gross investment by the Qarun Partners from inception will be approximately $160 million.
While development activities have proceeded, three wildcats were drilled on the concession in 1995 resulting in the discovery of two new oil fields. The Qarun B field was discovered in February 1995, testing from Cretaceous sands at a rate of 1,370 barrels of oil per day and 120 thousand cubic feet of gas per day. The Sakr field, located 8 kilometers southwest of the Qarun fields, was discovered in November 1995 and flowed at a rate of 405 barrels per day from Cretaceous aged sands. Additional drilling will be required to more accurately determine the size of this field. Current plans call for the drilling of four or five wildcat wells in the Qarun Concession during 1996. Moreover, significant additional seismic data will be acquired in 1996 to enable the continuation of an aggressive exploratory program in 1997 and beyond.
In May 1996, and again in May 1998, the Qarun Partners must relinquish 25% of the original acreage not then converted to development leases. All acreage not so converted by April 2000 must be relinquished.
Reserves. The table below shows the gross proved reserves estimated to remain in the Qarun Concession as of the dates shown.
General Description of the Qarun Concession Agreement. Under the Qarun Concession Agreement, the Qarun Partners pay 100% of capital and operating costs and the production is split between EGPC and the Qarun Partners. Up to 40% of the oil and gas produced and sold from the Qarun Concession is available to the Qarun Partners to recover costs ("cost recovery petroleum"). Cost recovery petroleum forms a single, unified pool for the entire concession from which costs of all fields, zones, products and types may be recovered without differentiation, except that operating costs are recovered prior to the recovery of any capital costs. Capital costs (which include exploration, development and other equipment and facilities costs) are amortized for recovery over five years while operating expenses are recoverable on a current basis. To the extent that costs eligible for recovery in any quarter exceed the amount of cost recovery petroleum produced and sold in that quarter, such costs are recoverable from cost recovery petroleum in future quarters with no limit on the ability to carry forward such costs. Any portion of cost recovery petroleum not used to recover costs goes to EGPC.
The remaining 60% of oil and gas produced and sold ("profit petroleum") is divided between EGPC and the Qarun Partners. All Egyptian income taxes and Egyptian government royalties attributable to the Qarun Partners on their share of production from the Qarun Concession are paid by EGPC out of EGPC's share of production.
The Qarun Partners' percentage of the oil segment of profit petroleum ("profit oil") is applied to increments of production based on the gross daily average of oil production determined on a quarterly basis as follows:
The Qarun Partners' percentage of the gas segment of profit petroleum is 22%.
Egypt retains the right of requisition of the Qarun Concession production and cancellation of the Qarun Concession Agreement upon the occurrence of specific events, including a national emergency due to war, imminent expectation of war or internal causes, unauthorized assignment of interests in the Qarun Concession, the Qarun Partners being adjudicated bankrupt by a court of competent jurisdiction and intentional extraction of any mineral not authorized by the Qarun Concession Agreement. Requisition or cancellation as a result of the foregoing or for any other reasons would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
General Description of Qarun Partners Arrangements. The Company pays 50% of the costs and expenses of the Qarun Partners and is entitled to receive 50% of the Qarun Partners' share of Qarun revenues.
OTHER PROPERTIES
The Company also owns miscellaneous oil and gas interests, consisting primarily of certain overriding royalty interests in the United States and certain overriding royalty interests in properties in the Canadian Arctic which cannot currently be produced on an economic basis.
CERTAIN OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS
Substantially all of the Company's operations and reserves are located in Egypt and, therefore, are subject to certain risks relating to economic and political stability in Egypt and the surrounding region. The Company is exposed to certain risks due to its concentration of Egyptian operations, which include possible changes in Egyptian laws, particularly relating to foreign investments and taxation, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts and expropriation. In recent years, militants have conducted activities in Egypt. While many of these militant activities have been directed at non-Egyptians, neither the Company's personnel nor its operations to date have been adversely affected. In addition, future exploration opportunities in Egypt are controlled by the government and subject to the Egyptian Parliament granting additional concessions. Adverse developments in Egypt and future changes in Egyptian governmental regulations and policies could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not insure against loss of production or political risks.
The production and sale of oil and gas in Egypt are subject to a variety of governmental regulations, including regulations relating to the prevention of waste, the discharge of
materials into the environment, the conservation of oil and natural gas, pollution, permits for drilling operations, the unitization and pooling of properties and various other matters. Although the Company believes it is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and other governmental laws and regulations in Egypt, there can be no assurance that significant costs for compliance will not be incurred in the future. In addition, these laws may become more burdensome in the future.
The nature of the oil and gas business involves a variety of risks, including operating hazards such as fires, explosions, cratering, blow-outs, encountering formations with abnormal pressures, and, in horizontal wellbores, the increased risk of mechanical failure and collapsed holes, the occurrence of any of which could result in losses to the Company. The Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks in amounts that management believes to be reasonable in accordance with customary industry practices. The occurrence of a significant event, however, that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.
The Company operates in a highly competitive industry. The Company competes in Egypt with major and independent oil and gas companies, including Amoco, Agip, Shell, Repsol and Norsk Hydro, for the acquisition of desirable oil and gas properties. Nearly all of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than the Company.
RESERVES
The following table sets forth summary information at the dates shown with respect to the estimates of the Company's net proved oil and gas reserves in Egypt. Currently all of the Company's net proved reserves are attributable to the oil and gas fields located in the Khalda and Qarun Concessions in Egypt. The Company's share of proved reserve quantities includes an assumed dollar amount of estimated future production necessary to recover costs. Therefore, the amount of Company net reserves for a given amount of total concession reserves varies with the assumed price. In addition, EGPC is required to pay, on behalf of the Company, all Egyptian government royalties and the Company's Egyptian income taxes from its share of production. The reserve information presented below includes reserves attributable to such tax payments on behalf of the Company by EGPC and, accordingly, the reserve information shown for 1993 and 1994 has been restated from amounts previously reported.
The estimation of reserves and of future net revenues is not an exact science and involves estimates based on many variable and uncertain factors, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. Estimates of reserves and of future net revenues prepared by different petroleum engineers may vary substantially depending, in part, on the assumptions made and may be subject to adjustment either up or down in the future. The actual amounts of production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves to be encountered may vary substantially from the engineers' estimates.
The Company's future production depends on its level of success in developing, acquiring or finding additional reserves. Except to the extent that the Company acquires properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful exploration and development activities, or both, the proved reserves of the Company will decline as reserves are produced. There can be no assurance that the Company's planned exploration and development projects will result in significant additional reserves or that the Company will have any future success in drilling productive wells.
PRODUCTION
The following table summarizes the Company's share of production of oil and natural gas sold, net of all royalties and other outstanding interests, for each of the three years ended December 31, 1993, 1994 and 1995. The Company's share of production in Egypt includes its share of cost recovery petroleum and, accordingly, the quantity of crude oil and natural gas attributable to the Company is a function of, among other things, prevailing prices. The production information shown below for Egypt includes production attributable to the payment on behalf of the Company by EGPC of the Company's share of Egyptian income taxes and, accordingly, the production information shown for 1993 and 1994 has been restated from amounts previously reported.
The following table shows the approximate number of producing wells, in which the Company owned a working interest, as of December 31, 1995. All producing wells are in Egypt.
Currently all gas produced by the Company in Egypt is associated gas produced from oil wells. The data in the above table includes two gross (0.8 net) oil wells in Egypt with multiple completions. In addition to the above, as of December 31, 1995, 11 gross (4.7 net) wells in Egypt were temporarily abandoned pending access to additional gas markets or further evaluation. There are currently 30 water injection wells in the Khalda Concession.
SALES
Production from the Khalda Concession has accounted for substantially all of the Company's oil and gas revenues for 1993, 1994 and most of 1995. In late November 1995 early production of crude oil via trucking from the Qarun Concession also began. The Company's share of crude oil and natural gas sales from both the Khalda Concession and the Qarun Concession is currently being sold exclusively to EGPC. The loss of EGPC as a purchaser or adverse developments in the business practices of EGPC could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
The market price for crude oil has significant and material effects upon the Company. The volatile nature of the energy markets makes it difficult to estimate future prices of oil. Both the market price of oil and the amount that EGPC pays for oil purchased from the Khalda Concession and the Qarun Concession are beyond the control of the Company.
Until late 1995, the Company's sales of crude oil in Egypt have consisted solely of the Company's share of oil produced from the Khalda Concession and have been exclusively to EGPC at a price tied to world markets. Khalda crude oil is light sweet crude oil with a gravity of approximately 40 degrees API. During 1995 the amount received by the Company for its Khalda crude oil was slightly less than the selling prices of Dated Brent crude oil. Qarun crude oil is also light sweet crude oil with a gravity of approximately 40 degrees API. For the first quarter of 1996 the Company is selling all of its crude oil to EGPC and is receiving a selling price equal to Dated Brent minus $0.15 for all of its Khalda and Qarun crude oil. Natural gas is currently sold to EGPC at a price per BTU equal to 85% of prevailing market prices of fuel oil. For the fourth quarter of 1995, the Company received $3.03 per Mcf for gas sold from the Khalda Concession. Sales of natural gas to the national grid will be sold at a price per BTU equal to 85% of prevailing market prices of crude oil.
The table below summarizes the average sales price of oil and natural gas and the average production costs for the years shown.
Average production costs for Egypt are determined by dividing the Company's share of production costs by the Company's share of sales quantities. If average production costs were calculated for Egypt by dividing total concession production costs by total concession sales quantities, average production costs (per EOB) for Egypt would be $1.19, $1.07 and $1.38 for 1993, 1994 and 1995, respectively.
ACREAGE
The Company's developed acreage in the United States primarily consists of areas where the Company owns an overriding royalty interest in production in conjunction with a working interest in nonproducing strata or undrilled acreage. The following table shows developed and undeveloped lease acreage of the Company outside the United States as of February 20, 1996.
Developed acreage shown above for Khalda is, with the exception of the Tarek field, held by production to all depths until at least 2010. The Tarek field acreage is held until 25 years after a gas sales contract for Tarek is entered into, but in no event beyond 2022. However, if no gas sales contract for Tarek gas has been entered into by 1999, the Tarek acreage is required to be relinquished. Developed acreage for Qarun consists of the Qarun Development Lease, which covers the Qarun A and Qarun B oil fields and is held by production to all depths until 2020. Undeveloped acreage for Egypt is on the Qarun Concession and the Khalda Offset block. Undeveloped acreage not converted to development leases must be relinquished in stages. All lease terms are believed sufficient for their reasonable exploration and development. The Canadian Arctic acreage has little or no value under current industry conditions.
DRILLING
The data in the following table does not include recompletions or water injection wells. All of the Company's drilling activities during the periods shown were in Egypt. At December 31, 1995 three gross wells (1.4 net wells) were in progress.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
See "Item 8 -- Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for financial information about foreign and domestic operations. During 1993, 1994 and 1995 no export sales from the United States were made.
ITEM 3