ITEM 2 PROPERTIES
The following map shows the location of the Company's interests in Egypt.
KHALDA CONCESSION
The principal producing properties of the Company are located in the Khalda Concession in the Western Desert of Egypt where the Company, exploring on its own, initially discovered commercial quantities of oil and gas in 1985. The Khalda Concession, currently consisting of 318,500 acres, is located in the Western Desert of Egypt, 50 miles inland from the Mediterranean coast and 140 miles west of Alexandria, Egypt. This area of Egypt has no significant populations, although several small towns are scattered along the Mediterranean coast. The Khalda Concession is governed by the Khalda Concession Agreement, a petroleum production sharing arrangement authorized and approved by the Egyptian Parliament between EGPC and the Khalda Partners consisting of the Company, Repsol and Samsung.
Operations. The Khalda Concession is operated by Khalda Petroleum Company, a non-profit Egyptian corporation with approximately 525 employees, that is jointly owned by the Khalda Partners and EGPC. Approximately half of Khalda Petroleum Company's employees are operational field employees and the remainder work in its headquarters office in a suburb of Cairo. Almost all employees of Khalda Petroleum Company are Egyptian nationals, complemented by about ten Repsol employees in various technical and management capacities. The Company owns 20% of the capital stock of Khalda Petroleum Company and designates two of the eight members of Khalda Petroleum Company's board of directors. The other members are designated by Repsol and EGPC.
From inception of the Khalda Concession through 1994, capital investments of approximately $426 million have been made in the Khalda Concession (approximately 9% by the Company). As a result, 45 exploratory wells and 112 development and service wells have been drilled and crude oil is now being produced from 12 fields. Total gross exploration and development expenditures of approximately $18 million were made by the Khalda Partners with respect to the Khalda Concession during 1994.
During 1994 three exploratory wells were drilled on the Khalda Concession -- Shrouk, Shrouk East and Shams with a 100% success rate. Additionally, the Nabil #2 exploratory well, which was in progress at year-end 1994, was plugged and abandoned in 1995. Moreover, 11 development and service wells were drilled on the Khalda Concession during 1994, also with a 100% success rate.
The Shrouk and Shrouk East wells each discovered commercial quantities of crude oil and the discovery wells commenced production immediately after discovery. The Shams well discovered natural gas and is shut-in awaiting access to natural gas markets. Because all of the foreseeable needs of the Mersah Matruh market can be met by associated gas and other Khalda natural gas fields, and because no firm arrangements have otherwise been made for the sale of natural gas from the Khalda Concession, the gas reserves associated with the Shams discovery have not been classified as proved reserves.
During 1995 oil and gas exploration and development on the Khalda Concession is expected to continue at approximately the same investment level as 1994, with the planned drilling of four exploratory wells and approximately ten development and service wells.
The central production facilities are located at the Salam field which is near the center of the productive area. With the major facilities centrally located, outlying fields are brought on line with minimal additional facility investment. Oil production and associated natural gas production from the Salam and outlying fields are sent through a gathering system to the central production facilities for separation and treatment. In addition to primary separation of the oil production, the central facilities supply necessary electrical power to the fields for artificial lift and send water for injection to the fields where waterflooding is required. The central facilities consist of two primary separation trains which together can process up to 40,000 barrels of oil per day and a water injection system which can distribute up to 40,000 barrels of water per day to most fields in the Khalda Concession. A crude oil recovery enhancement unit removes the heavy hydrocarbon components from the associated natural gas production and blends the resulting liquids with the crude oil production. Field personnel generally work for seven-day shifts and are housed at the central facility crew quarters. Personnel rotations are accomplished by air flights which land at the air strip shared with the Meleiha Concession, in which the Company has no interest.
Production. Crude oil production from the Khalda Concession commenced in late 1986. Crude oil is gathered and processed at the Salam central facilities and transported to oil storage and terminalling facilities at El Hamra, 50 miles west of Alexandria via pipeline. The
major portion of the pipeline, a 110-mile, 16-inch pipeline with design capacity of 90,000 barrels per day, is shared with other Western Desert concessions. Sales of associated gas from the Khalda Concession to an electrical power generation station in Mersah Matruh commenced during the first quarter of 1991 and averaged approximately 2.1 MMcf per day during 1994. This associated natural gas is transported from the central facilities via a 50-mile pipeline.
Gross oil production has increased each year since the initial discovery. Cumulative oil production through 1994 on the Khalda Concession has been approximately 76.3 million barrels. During 1994 average daily gross oil production from the Khalda Concession was approximately 32,731 barrels, an increase of 2% over 1993 average daily production. Gross production costs for the Khalda Concession in 1994 were $1.07 per equivalent oil barrel. Waterfloods for additional recovery of oil have been started in most fields. Additional reservoirs are being studied to determine whether they are appropriate candidates for waterflooding or other enhancement projects. Studies are being conducted to organize future exploratory, development and delineation drilling. There is no assurance, however, that production from the Khalda Concession will not decline in the future.
Western Desert Natural Gas. Exploration activities in the Khalda Concession have resulted in the discovery of significant quantities of gas, most of which is currently shut-in. While sales of associated natural gas to an electric utility in the coastal town of Mersah Matruh have been made in nominal amounts from the Khalda Concession since 1991, natural gas fields will remain shut-in until a pipeline is constructed to provide access to major natural gas markets. As of December 31, 1994 there were an estimated 153.6 Bcf of gross proved remaining gas reserves in the Khalda Concession, much of which is undeveloped.
In recent years, Western Desert gas exploration activities near the Khalda Concession have increased and significant discoveries of natural gas have been made by the Khalda Partners, Repsol, The Royal Dutch/Shell Group, Norsk Hydro a.s. and Agip S.p.A. Natural gas exploration activities continue to be conducted by the Khalda Partners within the Khalda Concession and also by these major oil and gas companies in nearby concessions in which the Company owns no interests. The Khalda Concession currently has four shut-in gas fields: Salam Deep, Tarek, Amoun and Shams. Discovery wells in each of these fields, except Amoun, tested at over 20 million cubic feet per day during initial production testing; the Amoun discovery well tested at 12 million cubic feet per day.
Engineering studies and discussions pertaining to the possibility of a major, coordinated Western Desert natural gas pipeline project are ongoing among EGPC, the Khalda Partners and other major oil and gas companies operating in the vicinity of Khalda. In addition, Egypt Gas, Amoco and Agip have formed Egypt's first private natural gas pipeline company. This new company, formed in late 1994, has announced its intention to consider the construction and operation of a pipeline connecting natural gas discoveries in the Western Desert with Egypt's internal distribution network. It is still unclear whether and when such a pipeline will be built, and if so, by whom. There is no assurance that this pipeline will ever be constructed and, if constructed, gas sales would not commence until at least two years after plans for the pipeline are finalized. Due to significant uncertainties regarding this project, it is currently not possible to quantify the Company's potential investment in this project, if any. However, if such a pipeline is constructed, the amount of investment by the Company in the development of the shut-in gas fields and possibly in the construction of the trunk line would very possibly be significantly higher than the Company's current level of capital expenditures in Khalda. Under the Khalda Concession Agreement, any such investment by the Khalda Partners, like most costs associated with the Khalda Concession, would be recoverable out of both oil and gas production.
The design and construction of a new 600-megawatt natural gas fired generating facility is underway at Sidi Kirir, which is located approximately 120 miles east of the Khalda Concession. The government of Egypt has announced that it expects to complete construction in 1998 or 1999. EGPC has informally suggested that the Khalda Partners and other oil and gas companies operating in the Western Desert tentatively plan to deliver their natural gas to this facility via a pipeline. There is no assurance that this facility will be constructed on schedule, that agreements will be entered into for the purchase of the Khalda Concession's gas or that arrangements will be entered into for the construction of the pipeline to this facility. EGPC could decide to obtain natural gas for this facility from other sources; alternatively, EGPC could elect to use Western Desert natural gas for other purposes.
Reserves. The table below shows the gross proved reserves estimated to remain in the Khalda Concession as of the dates shown.
South Khalda Acreage. In January 1995 the Khalda Partners reached an agreement with EGPC, whereby the Khalda Partners will be awarded the right to conduct petroleum activities in the South Khalda block. The South Khalda block, which contains 2.1 million acres, adjoins and generally surrounds the existing Khalda Concession and other producing acreage. Under the proposed agreement, which is subject to approval of the Egyptian Parliament, the Khalda Partners will drill at least seven wells and spend a minimum of $8 million during the initial exploration phase of four years and pay a signature bonus of $1 million. The Khalda Partners have the option to extend the exploratory phase of the South Khalda area by up to an additional five years by committing to additional drilling and financial requirements. Additional details of the agreement are contained in the following section.
General Description of the Khalda Concession Agreement. Under the Khalda Concession Agreement, the Khalda Partners pay 100% of capital and operating costs and the production is split between EGPC and the Khalda Partners. Up to 40% of the oil and gas produced and sold from the Khalda Concession is available to the Khalda Partners to recover costs ("cost recovery petroleum"). Cost recovery petroleum forms a single, unified pool for the entire concession from which costs of all fields, zones, products and types may be recovered without differentiation, except that operating costs are recovered prior to the recovery of any capital costs. Capital costs (which include exploration, development and other equipment and facilities costs) are amortized for recovery over four years while operating expenses are recoverable on a current basis. To the extent that costs eligible for recovery in any quarter exceed the amount of cost recovery petroleum produced and sold in that quarter, such costs are recoverable from cost recovery petroleum in future quarters with no limit on the ability to carry forward such costs.
The remaining 60% of oil and gas produced and sold ("profit petroleum"), together with any cost recovery petroleum not used for the recovery of costs ("excess cost recovery petroleum"), is divided between EGPC and the Khalda Partners. All Egyptian income taxes and Egyptian
government royalties attributable to the Khalda Partners on their share of production from the Khalda Concession are paid by EGPC out of EGPC's share of production.
The Khalda Partners' percentage of the oil segment of profit petroleum and excess cost recovery petroleum ("profit oil" and "excess cost recovery oil") is applied to increments of production based on the gross daily average of oil production determined on a quarterly basis as follows:
In addition, if natural gas sales to EGPC average over 12 billion BTUs per day during any six-month period ending June 30 or December 31, each of the above percentages is reduced by two percentage points.
The Khalda Partners' percentage of the gas segment of profit petroleum and excess cost recovery petroleum is 20%, except that the Khalda Partners' share is 23% of the first 15 MMcf per day of gas produced and sold from areas other than the Tarek field.
The South Khalda agreement is styled as an amendment to the Khalda Concession Agreement. Under the proposed agreement with EGPC, the South Khalda block will be added to the Khalda Concession. If and when commercial production from the South Khalda block begins, the recovery of past and future costs and sharing of profit and excess profit petroleum will be unified with the currently existing structure of the Khalda Concession pursuant to all of its existing terms.
Of the $426 million of capital expenditures recoverable from petroleum production incurred by the Khalda Partners from inception through 1994, approximately $42 million remained unrecovered at year-end 1994. The Company's share of unrecovered costs was approximately $4 million or 9% of such amount. Currently, all capital expenditures in the Khalda Concession are being completely recovered as amortized over four years.
Egypt retains the right of requisition of the Khalda Concession production and cancellation of the Khalda Concession Agreement upon the occurrence of specific events, including a national emergency due to war, imminent expectation of war or internal causes, unauthorized assignment of interests in the Khalda Concession, the Khalda Partners being adjudicated bankrupt by a court of competent jurisdiction and intentional extraction of any mineral not authorized by the Khalda Concession Agreement. Requisition or cancellation as a result of the foregoing or for any other reasons would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
General Description of Contractor Arrangements. The economic relationships among the Khalda Partners are governed principally by the Khalda Concession farmout agreement entered into in 1985 and amended in 1989 after natural gas rights were added to the Khalda Concession Agreement.
Operating and overhead expenses of Khalda Petroleum Company and Repsol, as partnership operator, are paid by the parties as follows: 50% by Repsol, 40% by the Company
and 10% by Samsung. Capital expenditures are split among the parties in two different ways: well costs are generally split depending upon the geological objective of the wells and the surface location of the well, while surface costs are generally split depending upon the nature of the product involved. In general, Repsol pays 100% of the costs of shallow (generally oil) wells, while deeper (generally gas) wells are split 50%, 40% and 10% among Repsol, the Company and Samsung, respectively. The distinction between shallow and deeper wells for this purpose is determined by reference to various geological markers and is generally at a depth of approximately 10,500 feet. Moreover, in the Salam, Amoun and Shams areas the cost splitting is more favorable to the Company and Samsung at the expense of Repsol. In the South Khalda area all capital and operating costs are to be split 50%, 40% and 10% among Repsol, the Company and Samsung, respectively.
Almost all of the well costs to date have been paid by Conoco or Repsol, either because the costs were incurred in areas where Repsol or Conoco were required to pay 100% of the costs, or because the costs were incurred prior to gas rights being added to the Khalda Concession Agreement when Conoco was required to pay all capital costs.
Surface costs for oil are paid 100% by Repsol and for gas are paid 50%, 40% and 10% by Repsol, the Company and Samsung, respectively. Accordingly, the Company was required to pay 40% of the costs of the gas pipeline to Mersah Matruh and would be required to pay 40% of the Khalda Concession's share, if any, of any unified Western Desert natural gas pipeline, should it be constructed.
Each member of the Khalda Partners is entitled to recover its operating expenses from cost recovery petroleum prior to the recovery of any capital costs. After operating expenses are recovered, the remaining increment of cost recovery petroleum is split among members of the Khalda Partners pro rata to their respective shares of unrecovered capital costs.
The Khalda Partners' share of profit petroleum and excess cost recovery petroleum is generally divided 50% to Repsol, 40% to the Company and 10% to Samsung after payment of a 3% royalty on the Khalda Partners share of profit oil and excess cost recovery oil. Moreover, a special arrangement applies to oil production from the Salam field, whereby the Company receives a more favorable split of such profit oil.
QARUN CONCESSION
In April 1993 the Qarun Partners were awarded the right to conduct petroleum exploration activities on the Qarun Concession, a 1.9 million acre block located immediately southwest of Cairo. The Company is the partnership operator and owns a 50% interest, with subsidiaries of Apache Corporation and Global Natural Resources each owning 25%. The Qarun Partners were committed to drill at least one exploratory well in the initial three-year exploratory phase. The exploration rights may be extended up to an additional four years by assuming additional drilling obligations.
After reprocessing 3,000 kilometers of old seismic and acquiring 500 kilometers of new seismic, the Qarun Partners drilled their first exploratory well on the Qarun Concession, the El Sagha #1A. The El Sagha #1A had dual objectives: shallower Cretaceous zones at around 9,000 feet and deeper objectives down to 14,000 feet. The shallower objectives were successfully drilled and logged, with the open hole logs indicating hydrocarbon zones in both the Bahariya and Kharita formations. The logs indicated the presence of an aggregate of over 100 feet of net oil pay in three sandstone intervals in the Bahariya, plus over 100 feet of net oil pay in a single sandstone interval in the Kharita. Analysis of a 90-foot core of some of the Bahariya pay zones suggested good reservoir quality.
While drilling the El Sagha #1A to the deeper objectives, a hole developed in the casing string which ultimately led to a brief flow of hydrocarbons to the surface from which contaminated samples of light sweet crude oil were recovered. During well control procedures that portion of the well containing the indicated pay sections was lost. Attempts to sidetrack and redrill to the indicated pay zones were unsuccessful. The drilling rig was moved two kilometers to the northwest, where a new exploratory well, the El Sagha #2, was spudded in late November 1994.
The El Sagha #2 also had dual objectives: shallower Cretaceous zones at around 9,000 feet and deeper objectives below 12,000 feet. The well was ultimately drilled to a total depth of 13,148 feet. The only significant hydrocarbon bearing zone was detected by logs at 8,868 feet to 8,890 feet in the Bahariya formation and a production test was conducted on that zone in early February 1995. During initial testing of this zone the well produced up to 1,370 barrels of oil per day and 120 thousand cubic feet of gas per day through a one-inch choke with a flowing tubing pressure of 55 psi. The crude oil API gravity is approximately 38 degrees. An appraisal well, the El Sagha #3, will be spudded in March 1995 at a location 900 meters southwest of the El Sagha #1.
Pursuant to the Qarun Concession Agreement, after commercial quantities of petroleum are established, an Egyptian operating company would be formed to operate the block in much the same manner as Khalda Petroleum Company operates the Khalda Concession. Production facilities and transportation pipelines would need to be constructed before commercial production would begin.
Reserves. At December 31, 1994 gross proved oil reserves for the Qarun Concession were estimated to be 23.6 million barrels. No proved gas reserves had been assigned at December 31, 1994.
General Description of the Qarun Concession Agreement. Under the Qarun Concession Agreement, the Qarun Partners pay 100% of capital and operating costs and the production is split between EGPC and the Qarun Partners. Up to 40% of the oil and gas produced and sold from the Qarun Concession is available to the Qarun Partners to recover costs ("cost recovery petroleum"). Cost recovery petroleum forms a single, unified pool for the entire concession from which costs of all fields, zones, products and types may be recovered without differentiation, except that operating costs are recovered prior to the recovery of any capital costs. Capital costs (which include exploration, development and other equipment and facilities costs) are amortized for recovery over five years while operating expenses are recoverable on a current basis. To the extent that costs eligible for recovery in any quarter exceed the amount of cost recovery petroleum produced and sold in that quarter, such costs are recoverable from cost recovery petroleum in future quarters with no limit on the ability to carry forward such costs. Any portion of cost recovery petroleum not used to recover costs goes to EGPC.
The remaining 60% of oil and gas produced and sold ("profit petroleum") is divided between EGPC and the Qarun Partners. All Egyptian income taxes and Egyptian government royalties attributable to the Qarun Partners on their share of production from the Qarun Concession are paid by EGPC out of EGPC's share of production.
The Qarun Partners' percentage of the oil segment of profit petroleum ("profit oil") is applied to increments of production based on the gross daily average of oil production determined on a quarterly basis as follows:
The Qarun Partners' percentage of the gas segment of profit petroleum is 22%.
Egypt retains the right of requisition of the Qarun Concession production and cancellation of the Qarun Concession Agreement upon the occurrence of specific events, including a national emergency due to war, imminent expectation of war or internal causes, unauthorized assignment of interests in the Qarun Concession, the Qarun Partners being adjudicated bankrupt by a court of competent jurisdiction and intentional extraction of any mineral not authorized by the Qarun Concession Agreement. Requisition or cancellation as a result of the foregoing or for any other reasons would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
General Description of Qarun Partners Arrangements. The Company pays 50% of the costs and expenses of the Qarun Partners and is entitled to receive 50% of the Qarun Partners' share of Qarun revenues.
OTHER PROPERTIES
The Company also owns miscellaneous oil and gas interests, consisting primarily of certain overriding royalty interests in the United States; an inactive oil terminal and associated real estate near Portland, Maine which is expected to be sold during 1995; certain overriding royalty interests in properties in the Canadian Arctic which cannot currently be produced on an economic basis; and other minor properties.
CERTAIN OPERATIONAL CONSIDERATIONS
Substantially all of the Company's operations and reserves are located in Egypt and, therefore, are subject to certain risks relating to economic and political stability in Egypt and the surrounding region. The Company is exposed to certain risks due to its concentration of Egyptian operations, which include possible changes in Egyptian laws, particularly relating to foreign investments and taxation, renegotiation or modification of existing contracts and expropriation. In recent years, terrorists have conducted activities in Egypt. While many of these terrorist activities have been directed at non-Egyptians, neither the Company's personnel nor its operations to date have been adversely affected. In addition, future exploration opportunities in Egypt are controlled by the government and subject to the Egyptian Parliament granting additional concessions. Adverse developments in Egypt and future changes in Egyptian governmental regulations and policies could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company does not insure against loss of production or political risks.
The production and sale of oil and gas in Egypt are subject to a variety of governmental regulations, including regulations relating to the prevention of waste, the discharge of materials into the environment, the conservation of oil and natural gas, pollution, permits for drilling operations, the unitization and pooling of properties and various other matters. Although the Company believes it is in substantial compliance with applicable environmental and other governmental laws and regulations in Egypt, there can be no assurance that significant costs for compliance will not be incurred in the future. In addition, these laws may become more burdensome in the future.
The nature of the oil and gas business involves a variety of risks, including operating hazards such as fires, explosions, cratering, blow-outs, encountering formations with abnormal pressures, and, in horizontal wellbores, the increased risk of mechanical failure and collapsed holes, the occurrence of any of which could result in losses to the Company. The Company maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks in amounts that management believes to be reasonable in accordance with customary industry practices. The occurrence of a significant event, however, that is not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.
The Company operates in a highly competitive industry. The Company competes in Egypt with major and independent oil and gas companies, including Amoco, Agip, Shell, Repsol and Norsk Hydro, for the acquisition of desirable oil and gas properties. Nearly all of these competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than the Company.
RESERVES
The following table sets forth summary information at the dates shown with respect to the estimates of the Company's net proved oil and gas reserves in Egypt. Currently all of the Company's net proved reserves are attributable to the oil and gas fields located in the Khalda and Qarun Concessions in Egypt. The Company's share of proved reserve quantities includes an assumed dollar amount of estimated future production necessary to recover costs. Therefore, the amount of Company net reserves for a given amount of total concession reserves varies with the assumed price. In addition, EGPC is required to pay, on behalf of the Company, all Egyptian government royalties and the Company's Egyptian income taxes from its share of production. The reserve information presented below does not include reserves attributable to such payments on behalf of the Company by EGPC, nor does the information regarding reserve values include any deductions for Egyptian income taxes.
The estimation of reserves and of future net revenues is not an exact science and involves estimates based on many variable and uncertain factors, including many factors beyond the control of the producer. Estimates of reserves and of future net revenues prepared by different petroleum engineers may vary substantially depending, in part, on the assumptions made and may be subject to adjustment either up or down in the future. The actual amounts of production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves to be encountered may vary substantially from the engineers' estimates. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.
The Company's future production depends on its level of success in developing, acquiring or finding additional reserves. Except to the extent that the Company acquires properties containing proved reserves or conducts successful exploration and development activities, or both, the proved reserves of the Company will decline as reserves are produced. There can be no
assurance that the Company's planned exploration and development projects will result in significant additional reserves or that the Company will have any future success in drilling productive wells.
PRODUCTION
The following table summarizes the Company's share of production of oil and natural gas sold, net of all royalties and other outstanding interests, for each of the three years ended December 31, 1992, 1993 and 1994. The Company's share of production in Egypt includes its share of cost recovery petroleum and, accordingly, the quantity of crude oil and natural gas attributable to the Company is a function of, among other things, prevailing prices. The production information shown below for Egypt does not include any production attributable to the payment on behalf of the Company by EGPC of the Company's share of Egyptian income taxes. All of the production in Egypt for the three years shown is from the Khalda Concession.
The following table shows the approximate number of producing wells, in which the Company owned a working interest, as of December 31, 1994. All producing wells are in Egypt and are on the Khalda Concession.
Currently all gas produced by the Company in Egypt is associated gas produced from oil wells. The data in the above table includes two gross (0.8 net) oil wells in Egypt with multiple completions. In addition to the above, as of December 31, 1994, 15 gross (6 net) wells in Egypt were temporarily abandoned pending completion, access to additional gas markets or further evaluation. There are currently 31 water injection wells in the Khalda Concession.
SALES
Production from the Khalda Concession has accounted for substantially all of the Company's oil and gas revenues over the past three years. The Company's share of crude oil and natural gas sales from the Khalda Concession is currently being sold exclusively to EGPC. The loss of EGPC as a purchaser or adverse developments in the business practices of EGPC could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
The market price for crude oil has significant and material effects upon the Company. Oil prices are extremely volatile. The volatile nature of the energy markets makes it difficult to estimate future prices of oil. Both the market price of oil and the amount that EGPC pays for oil purchased from the Khalda Concession are beyond the control of the Company.
Historically, the Company's sales of crude oil in Egypt have consisted solely of the Company's share of oil produced from the Khalda Concession and have been exclusively to
EGPC at a price tied to the average monthly official government price for Gulf of Suez Blend ("GOSB") crude oil. Khalda crude oil is light sweet crude oil with a gravity of approximately 40 degrees API. During 1994 the amount received by the Company for its Khalda crude oil roughly approximated the selling prices of Brent crude oil. Egyptian natural gas is currently sold at a price per BTU equal to 85% of prevailing market prices of certain fuel oil. In the future it is anticipated that new agreements will tie most future Egyptian natural gas sales at a price per BTU equal to 85% of prevailing prices of GOSB.
The table below summarizes the average sales price of oil and natural gas and the average production costs, including lease operating costs and production taxes, for the years shown. Because of the low level of production in the United States, where the Company is abandoning its last working interest well, 1994 data for the United States is not meaningful.
Average production costs for Egypt are determined by dividing the Company's share of production costs by the Company's share of sales quantities. If average production costs were calculated for Egypt by dividing total concession production costs by total concession sales quantities, average production costs (per EOB) for Egypt would be $1.10, $1.19 and $1.07 for 1992, 1993 and 1994, respectively. Since Egyptian government royalties and Egyptian income taxes payable by the Company are paid by EGPC on behalf of the Company out of EGPC's share of production, such production is not included in the Company's share of sales quantities.
ACREAGE
The Company's developed acreage in the United States primarily consists of areas where the Company owns an overriding royalty interest in production in conjunction with a working interest in nonproducing strata or undrilled acreage. The following table shows developed and undeveloped lease acreage of the Company outside the United States as of February 10, 1995.
Developed acreage shown above for Egypt is all on the Khalda Concession and with the exception of one field, the Tarek field, is held by production to all depths until at least 2010 to 2012. The Tarek field acreage is held until 25 years after a gas sales contract for Tarek is entered into, but in no event beyond 2022. However, if no gas sales contract for Tarek gas has been entered into by 1999, the Tarek acreage is required to be relinquished. Undeveloped acreage for Egypt is on the Qarun Concession and South Khalda block. The agreement pertaining to the South Khalda block is subject to the approval of the Egyptian Parliament.
All lease terms are believed sufficient for their reasonable exploration and development. The Canadian Arctic acreage has little or no value under current industry conditions.
DRILLING
The data in the following table does not include recompletions or water injection wells. The one dry hole drilled during 1994 was paid for by the Company's partner in the Faghur Concession, which was subsequently relinquished. All of the Company's drilling activities during the periods shown were in Egypt. At December 31, 1994 two gross wells (0.9 net wells) were in progress.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
See "Item 8 -- Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for financial information about foreign and domestic operations. During 1992, 1993 and 1994 no export sales from the United States were made.
ITEM 3