ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We own perpetual oil and gas mineral and royalty interests comprised of and commonly referred to as the Texas Holdings, the Southeastern States Holdings and the Four States Property Holdings, all of which are equal to approximately 2,643,000 gross acres.
TEXAS HOLDINGS
Our Texas Holdings are comprised of the Northern Ranch Minerals and the Southern Ranch Minerals and are equal to approximately 766,000 gross (461,000 net) acres.
NORTHERN RANCH MINERALS
We own mineral interests under approximately 334,000 gross acres located in Oldham and Hartley Counties, Texas. These minerals are all located in the geologic province commonly known as the Southern Dalhart Basin.
In January 1999, we sold approximately 66,300 gross (49,700 net) mineral acres for $750,000. This particular acreage is commonly referred to as the Scharbauer Ranch acreage in Oldham County, Texas.
Both of these sales are a result of our new business strategy to divest the company's non-strategic assets. We plan to continue this divestment strategy as long as we receive what we consider to be viable offers for our non-strategic minerals.
No wells were drilled on the Northern Ranch Minerals in 1999. As of March 17, 2000, no wells have been drilled on this acreage. We continue to receive inquiries by third parties to evaluate the existing 2-D seismic database and possibly implementing the latest 3-D seismic technology to evaluate the potential of the minerals.
SOUTHERN RANCH MINERALS
We own mineral interests under an aggregate of approximately 470,000 gross acres located in three geologic provinces commonly known as the Palo Duro Basin, the Matador Arch, and the Eastern Shelf.
PALO DURO BASIN - The Palo Duro Basin, where we own mineral interests under approximately 195,000 gross acres located in Motley and Cottle Counties, Texas, is a moderate depth depression between the Matador Arch on the south and the Amarillo uplift complex to the north. There was no leasing or drilling activity with respect to our mineral interests in this region in 1999. In August 1999, we sold approximately 38,000 gross (19,000 net) mineral acres for $300,000. This acreage is commonly referred to as the Bird acreage in Cottle and Motley Counties, Texas.
MATADOR ARCH - The Matador Arch, where we own mineral interests under approximately 90,000 gross acres, is a prominent east-west structural positive traversing north Texas and southern Oklahoma.
We leased approximately 1,800 gross (1,400 net) acres to two separate third parties in 1999. One of the operators leased some of our acreage contiguous with acreage owned by others. Two wells were drilled and tested dry on the outside acreage. As of December 31, 1999, there were no wells drilled with respect to our mineral interests in this region. As of March 17, 2000, the other third party re-entered and pipe tested a previously plugged and abandoned well near the Matador Field as a marginal oil producer pumping less than five barrels of oil per day. We own a 15.0% net royalty interest in this well.
EASTERN SHELF - The Eastern Shelf of the Midland Basin, where we own mineral interests under approximately 185,000 gross acres located primarily in Dickens County, Texas, is prospective for shallow Permian age oil accumulations in the Tannehill Sand and possible deeper objectives in the Pennsylvanian section.
In 1999, we leased a total of approximately 2,300 gross (1,100 net) acres under two separate agreements. As of December 31, 1999, there had not been any wells drilled on our acreage under these agreements. As of March 17, 2000, one exploratory well had been drilled to test the Tannehill Sand as an extension to the Silver Spur Field resulting in a dry hole. We participated with a 9.375% working interest.
SOUTHEASTERN STATES HOLDINGS
In December 1998, the Company acquired approximately 1,775,000 gross (876,000 net) acres located in Mississippi, Alabama and Louisiana. Most of the Company's activity is generated along the southern half of each of these three states. Unlike our Texas Holdings, our mineral spread here is diversified over several geologic provinces and not highly concentrated and dense in one specific area. Conversely, we own a mineral position in every county in Mississippi and Alabama.
MISSISSIPPI
The Company owns perpetual mineral interests in approximately 1,137,000 gross acres in Mississippi. The largest concentration of activity for our Southeastern States Holdings is in the geologic province commonly known as the Mississippi Salt Basin. This province primarily stretches from northeastern Louisiana across the southern half of Mississippi and just into the southwestern portions of Alabama. In another province of more recent importance is the development of a Deep Knox Gas discovery in northeastern Mississippi located just southwest and adjacent to the Black Warrior Basin. This basin extends from northeastern Mississippi into northwestern Alabama.
MISSISSIPPI SALT BASIN
The Mississippi Salt Basin contains two major areas of exploration activity that currently provide us with the opportunity to gain significant reserve additions. The two areas are the Piercement Salt Domes and the Salt Ridges.
PIERCEMENT SALT DOMES - The Piercement Salt Dome activity is currently focused in the south-central portion of Mississippi in Covington, Jefferson Davis and Jones Counties, Mississippi. These geologic features have several target pay zones ranging from primary objectives in several Hosston Sandstones at depths of over 15,000 feet to secondary objectives in the Sligo and Paluxy formations at approximately 14,000 feet and 12,000 feet, respectively. The current success in this area is primarily attributed to the utilization of modern 3-D seismic technology. As a royalty owner we do not bear the burden of any expenses in exploring and developing any fields discovered.
The Kola Dome feature is the latest salt dome exploration project to utilize modern 3-D seismic technology. In Covington County, Mississippi, the #1 Miller-Langston well reached a total depth of over 16,000 feet and was completed in the Sligo formation during February of 2000, testing at daily rates in excess of 9.1 MMcf of natural gas and 450 barrels of condensate without any form of stimulation. We own a 5.89% net royalty interest in this well. In addition, we hold a 50% mineral interest in 3,000 acres within a two-mile radius of the newly completed well, some of which is contiguous to the new field discovery.
In Jefferson Davis County, Mississippi, we are also incurring benefits from the use of modern 3-D seismic technology. In June 1997, the Oakvale Dome Field was discovered. The discovery well has produced at daily rates in excess of 10 MMcf of natural gas and 35 barrels of condensate. As of March 17, 2000, there are three wells producing from several Hosston formations in the field for a combined daily rate of 15.8 MMcf and 35 barrels of condensate. We own a 3.125% net royalty interest in two of the three wells and a 0.78% in the third and least productive of the three wells. As of March 17, 2000, the operator is in the process of drilling its fourth well in the field. We will own a 1.97% net royalty interest if the well is successfully completed as a producer. A fifth location near this field has been permitted with the State of Mississippi, but no definitive date has been announced as to when drilling will commence.
Near the Moselle Dome in Jones County, Mississippi, we own a 4.17% net royalty interest in the #1 Frost 5-11 well in the Parker Creek Field which is identified geologically as a fault-bounded structural feature adjacent to a salt dome. This well was completed in the Hosston at a daily rate in excess of 700 barrels of oil in November 1999. As of March 17, 2000, the operator is drilling the #1 Allar Company well in a northern extension to the field. If successfully completed as a producer, we will own a 2.93% net royalty interest. Currently, the operator is drilling below the intermediate casing which was set through the Hosston formation. The Hosston section had good oil shows and is stratigraphically equivalent to the zone completed in the #1 Frost 5-11 well.
SALT RIDGES - Salt Ridge exploration activity is resuming in Wayne County, Mississippi. The primary objectives are the Cotton Valley, Smackover and Norphlet formations ranging from 12,000 feet to 18,000 feet. The use of modern 3-D seismic technology has been critical to the success of this activity.
This activity was initiated as a result of the discovery of the Crawford Creek Field in Wayne County, Mississippi in 1994. As of December 1999, this field has produced nearly 3 million barrels of oil and 1.5 Bcf of natural gas from 15 wells out of the Cotton Valley and Hosston Sands.
Some of our acreage is in a favorable position to be leased. As of March 17, 2000, we are in the process of negotiating several leases with a number of operators.
DEEP KNOX GAS
Current activity is centered in western Oktibbeha County, Mississippi, adjacent to the Black Warrior Basin, where the 15,000-foot Knox test well, the #1 Sanders, was completed in June 1998 as an extension of the Maben Field which was originally discovered in 1970. The newly discovered well flowed for an average daily rate of 5.8 MMcf in January of 2000. It produced nearly 3.0 Bcf of natural gas since gas sales began in September 1998. We own a 0.35% net royalty interest in this well. The operator drilled and completed a second exploratory well in the play, the #1 Georgia Pacific, which flowed at a daily rate of approximately 400 Mcf in June 1999. We own a 2.79% net royalty interest in this well. A third well, where we do not own a royalty interest, was drilled and completed by the same operator in February 2000 and tested at a daily rate of 5.2 MMcf.
This area is considered to be extremely promising since very few wells have been drilled to the Knox formation in this region near or in the Black Warrior Basin. The operator's continued success, aided by the use of modern 3-D seismic technology, will fuel future drilling interest around the Maben Field area. Additionally, other companies are in the process of funding a research team to investigate the play into other regions including and outside of Mississippi.
ALABAMA
The Company owns perpetual oil and gas mineral and royalty interests in approximately 622,000 gross acres in Alabama. We own a mineral position in every county in Alabama. Activity on our minerals in Alabama is not as significant as it is in Mississippi.
LOUISIANA
The Company owns oil and gas mineral and royalty interests in approximately 16,000 gross acres in Louisiana. Unlike the other states where we own perpetual minerals, the laws in Louisiana are such that the minerals prescribe to the surface owner after 10 years have passed without any production or drilling on said lands. Since we do not own the surface rights in any of the properties that were acquired in December 1998, the consequences are that we do not maintain many of our mineral rights if production ceases for a period of 10 years.
FOUR STATE PROPERTY HOLDINGS
In September 1999, the Company acquired certain oil and gas royalty interests located in Arkansas, California, Kansas and Michigan. The holdings include approximately 140 producing wells in addition to approximately 56,000 gross (18,000 net) undeveloped acres. The Company's outside engineering firm estimated total net proved reserves at 2.6 Bcfe. Natural gas comprises approximately 57% of the total reserves.
TITLE TO OIL AND NATURAL GAS PROPERTIES
We have acquired interests in producing and non-producing acreage in the form of working interests, fee mineral interests, royalty interests and overriding royalty interests. Substantially all of our property interests are leased to third parties. The leases grant the lessee the right to explore for and extract oil and natural gas from specified areas. Consideration for a lease usually consists of a lump sum payment (i.e., bonus) and a fixed annual charge (i.e., delay rental) prior to production (unless the lease is paid up) and, once production has been established, a royalty based generally upon the proceeds from the sale of oil and natural gas. Once wells are drilled, a lease generally continues so long as production of oil and natural gas continues. In some cases, leases may be acquired in exchange for a commitment to drill or finance the drilling of a specified number of wells to predetermined depths. We receive annual delay rentals from lessees of certain properties in order to prevent the leases from terminating. Title to leasehold properties is subject to royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits and other similar interests and contractual arrangements customary in the oil and natural gas industry, and to liens incident to operating agreements, liens relating to amounts owed to the operator, liens for current taxes not yet due and other encumbrances. A substantial portion of our exploration and production properties are pledged as collateral under our credit facility, including a major portion of the Southeastern States Holdings.
As is common industry practice, we conduct little or no investigation of title at the time we acquire undeveloped properties, other than a preliminary review of local mineral records. However, we do conduct title investigations and, in most cases, obtain a title opinion of local counsel before commencement of drilling operations. We believe that the methods we utilize for investigating title prior to acquiring any property is consistent with practices customary in the oil and gas industry and that such practices are adequately designed to enable us to acquire good title to such properties. Some title risks, however, cannot be avoided, despite the use of customary industry practices.
Our properties are generally subject to:
o customary royalty and overriding royalty interests;
o liens incident to operating agreements and
o liens for current taxes and other burdens and minor encumbrances, easements and restrictions.
We believe that none of these burdens either materially detract from the value of our properties or materially interfere with their use in the operation of our business. Substantially all of our properties are pledged as collateral under our credit facility.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following tables summarize certain information regarding our estimated proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997. All such reserves are located in the United States. The estimates relating to our proved oil and gas reserves and future net revenues of oil and gas reserves at December 31, 1999 are based upon reports prepared by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants. The estimates at December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997 included in this report are based upon reports prepared by other outside engineering firms. In accordance with the guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves and their SEC PV-10 are made using oil and gas sales prices in effect as of the dates of such estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties. For the three years ended December 31, our estimates of proved reserves, future net cash flows and SEC PV-10 for the life of the properties were estimated using the weighted average prices shown below for the life of the properties, before deduction of production, severance and ad valorem taxes. Included in the table is the percent change in the weighted-average price from the prior year.
Reserve estimates are imprecise and may be expected to change as additional information becomes available. Furthermore, estimates of oil and gas reserves, of necessity, are projections based on engineering data, and there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of such data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgement. Reserve reports of other engineers might differ from the reports contained herein. Results of drilling, testing, and production subsequent to the date of the estimate may justify revision of such estimate. Future prices received for the sale of oil and gas may be different from those used in preparing these reports. The amounts and timing of future operating and development costs may also differ from those used. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the reserves set forth herein will ultimately be produced nor can there be assurance that the proved undeveloped reserves will be developed within the periods anticipated. We emphasize with respect to the estimates prepared by independent petroleum engineers that the discounted future net cash inflows should not be construed as representative of the fair market value of the proved oil and gas properties belonging to us, since discounted future net cash inflows are based upon projected cash inflows which do not provide for changes in oil and gas prices nor for escalation of expenses and capital costs. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.
All reserves are evaluated at contract temperature and pressure which can affect the measurement of natural gas reserves. Operating costs, development costs and certain production-related and ad valorem taxes were deducted in arriving at the estimated future net cash flows. No provision was made for income operating methods and existing conditions at the prices and operating costs prevailing at the dates indicated above. The estimates of the SEC PV-10 from future net cash flows differ from the Standardized Measure set forth in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, which is calculated after provision for future income taxes. There can be no assurance that these estimates are accurate predictions of future net cash flows from oil and natural gas reserves or their present value.
For additional information concerning our oil and natural gas reserves and estimates of future net revenues attributable thereto, see Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
COMPANY RESERVES
The following tables set forth our proved reserves of oil and gas and the SEC PV-10 thereof on an actual basis for each year in the three-year period ended December 31, 1999.
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES (1)
- ----------
SEC PV-10 OF PROVED RESERVES
- ---------- (1) SEC PV-10 differs from the Standardized Measure set forth in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, which is calculated after provision for future income taxes.
Except for the effect of changes in oil and gas prices, no major discovery or other favorable or adverse event is believed to have caused a significant change in these estimates of our proved reserves since December 31, 1999.
VOLUMES, PRICES AND COSTS
The following table sets forth certain information regarding volumes of our production of oil and natural gas, our average sales price per Bbl of crude oil and average sales price per Mcf of natural gas, together with our average production cost per BOE for each of the three years ended December 31, 1999 from producing interests:
- ----------
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following table sets forth for each of the last three years the number of net exploratory and development wells drilled by us or on our behalf. An exploratory well is a well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir. A development well is a well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the respective year, regardless of when drilling was initiated; and "completion" refers to the installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil or gas, or, in the case of a dry well, to the reporting of the plugging date to the appropriate state regulatory agency.
- ----------
(1) A productive well is an exploratory or a development well that is not a dry well.
(2) A dry well is an exploratory or development well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
(3) One (1) gross (0.25 net) exploratory well, which was a producer, was drilled in December 1997 but completed in January 1998.
(4) One (1) gross (0.44 net) development well, which was a producer, was drilled in December 1997 but completed in January 1998.
PRODUCING WELLS AND ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the gross and net producing oil and gas wells in which we owned an interest and the developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage held by us as of December 31, 1999. A "gross" well or acre is a well or acre in which we have a working interest or royalty interest. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which a working interest or royalty interest is owned. A "net" well or acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests and/or royalty interests in a gross well or acre equals one. The number of net wells or acres is the sum of the fractional working interests and/or royalty interests owned in gross wells or acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
- ----------
(1) Does not include wells that are considered to have a minor value on an individual basis.
(2) Undeveloped acreage is considered to be only those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves.
PRESENT ACTIVITIES
For the period January 1, 2000 through March 17, 2000, we participated in drilling five gross (0.47 net) exploratory wells: one of the wells was on our mineral holdings, two of the wells were successfully completed as a gas wells, one of the wells was dry and one of the wells is in progress.
OFFICE LEASE
We occupy approximately 5,277 square feet of office space at 4809 Cole Avenue, Suite 108, Dallas, Texas 75205 under a lease from Chalk Stream Properties, L.P. Total rental expense for 1999 was $95,541.
ITEM 3.