Item 2. Properties." for more detailed information.
BUSINESS STRATEGY
Our strategic focus during 2000 centered on the pursuit of high quality property acquisitions, participation in exploration projects as a non-operator and the disposition of non-strategic assets. The principal elements of our ongoing strategic focus are as follows:
o Pursue opportunities to make high quality property acquisitions.
o Identify and dispose of non-strategic assets in all areas in order to take advantage of favorable oil and gas prices. We intend to use multiple avenues in this marketing effort, including Internet based auctions held by EnergyNet.com, Inc.
o Expand our level of direct working interest participation as a non-operator in exploration projects that provide exposure in drilling opportunities for both multiple prospects and multiple pay zones. We expect these opportunities to be generated by experienced third party operators using current generation three-dimensional ("3-D") seismic technology.
DEVELOPMENTS DURING 2000 AND 1999
ACQUISITIONS & MERGERS
As part of our strategy to actively pursue high quality property acquisition and merger opportunities, we reviewed a number of prospective candidates during 2000. We successfully closed one merger and one major equity investment as a result of this process.
TEXONA PETROLEUM CORPORATION. On September 19, 2000, Toreador Acquisition Corporation ("TAC"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company completed a merger with Texona Petroleum Corporation ("Texona"), pursuant to a Merger Agreement dated as of September 11, 2000. The terms of the Merger Agreement called for Texona to be merged with TAC in a forward triangular merger, thus leaving TAC as the surviving entity. The outstanding stock of Texona was exchanged for a total of 1,115,000 common shares of Toreador, of which 1,025,000 was issued to the Texona shareholders during 2000 and the remaining shares ("Deferred Shares") will be issued no later then June 1, 2001, subject to Toreador shareholder approval. The issuance of Toreador shares for the Texona shares is hereinafter referred to as the "Merger".
In addition, the Company issued 143,040 of its stock options to certain former employees and directors of Texona. The strike price of the options is $3.12 per share, and they expire on September 19, 2010. On the Merger closing date, the Company's stock was trading at $5.75 per share, and accordingly, the fair value of the options was included in the purchase price allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Immediately prior to the Merger, Texona owned an interest in close to 1,000 wells located in 12 states, primarily Oklahoma, Texas and Louisiana. The estimated proved reserves for Texona totaled 6,806 MMcf and 449 MBbl for a total of 9,502 MMcfe (equivalent MMcf on six Mcf per one barrel of oil basis).
Immediately after the Merger closing, TAC extinguished Texona's outstanding bank debt of $2,449,223, utilizing its line from Compass Bank, Dallas. In connection with the borrowing, Toreador, TAC, Toreador Exploration & Production Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and Tormin, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into an amendment to their existing Credit Agreement with Compass Bank, which Credit Agreement was effective September 30,1999. The amendment to the Credit Agreement increased the borrowing base to $17,000,000 from the previous borrowing base of $14,500,000.
The Merger is being accounted for under the purchase method of accounting for business combinations. Under the purchase method, the combination is recorded at cost, which in this case is based upon the fair market value of Toreador common stock, options issued and direct costs incurred. Acquired assets are recorded at their fair market value up to the purchase price. The Company's results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2000 include the results of operations from September 19, 2000 through December 31, 2000.
ENERGYNET.COM, INC. On July 11, 2000, the Company acquired a 35.0% interest in EnergyNet.com, Inc. ("EnergyNet"), an Internet based oil and gas property auction company. The terms of the acquisition called for the Company to issue 100,000 shares of common stock plus a $100,000 payment. We believe that this investment in EnergyNet will provide the Company with a vehicle well designed to facilitate the disposition of non-strategic assets by the Company.
FOUR STATES ACQUISITION. On September 30, 1999, we purchased certain oil and gas royalty interests located in Arkansas, California, Kansas and Michigan from Conoco, Inc. (the "Four States Property Acquisition"). The Company's outside consulting engineering firm estimated total net proved reserves at more than 2.6 Bcfe. Gas comprises approximately 57% of the total reserves. The purchase price for these royalty interests was $3,215,000. The effective date of the purchase was August 1, 1999.
LARIO PROPERTY ACQUISITION. On December 22, 1999, we purchased 50% of Lario Oil and Gas Company's working interests in certain oil and gas leases and properties located in Finney County, Kansas for a total purchase price of $5,500,000 (the "Lario Property Acquisition"). This acquisition resulted in reserve additions of over 1,000,000 BOE. The purchase had an effective date of October 1, 1999.
DISPOSAL OF NON-STRATEGIC ASSETS
In 2000, we sold several non-strategic oil and gas assets for over $900,000. Of that amount, thirty-nine percent (39%) of the funds received were captured through the use of EnergyNet's auction web site (www.energynet.com). The remaining funds were received through private negotiated sales.
We completed two major asset sales during 1999. In January we sold a portion of our acreage in the Texas Panhandle for $750,000. In September we sold a portion of our West Texas acreage for $300,000.
ONGOING 3-D PROJECTS
As part of our strategy to participate in third party generated and operated 3-D seismic projects in geologic regions outside of our holdings, we are currently engaged in several 3-D seismic projects that could add significant oil and gas reserves.
KIRBY HILLS 3-D SEISMIC PROJECT. We acquired a 12.5% working interest and an approximate 9.4% net revenue interest in a 20 square mile 3-D seismic project in Solano County, California in 1999. This project, which is located in the Sacramento Basin of northern California, is designed to identify structural closures within in an established gas producing area. The objective formations, the Wagenet, Domengine and Nortonville Sandstones, range in depth from 1,500 feet to 5,400 feet. As of March 16, 2001, the data acquisition and processing phases are complete. Drilling, contingent upon rig availability, will commence in the early part of the second quarter 2001. The operator of the project has readily identified three drillable prospects and is working on six other prospect leads. Drilling depths on the first three wells will be in the 3600-foot range. The drilling cost for each of the first three wells is estimated to range from $315,000 to $400,000 gross ($39,000 to $50,000 net to Toreador). A completed well (not including pipeline expenditures) will range from $485,000 to $580,000 gross ($61,000 to $73,000 net to Toreador).
SOUTH ORANGE GROVE 3-D SEISMIC PROJECT. We acquired a 12.5% working interest and an approximate 9.5% net revenue interest in a 44 square mile 3-D seismic project in Jim Wells County, Texas in 1999. This project, which is located 35 miles west-northwest of Corpus Christi, Texas, is designed to identify and test shallow, fault-bounded structural closures as well as stratigraphic complexities targeting gas reserves in and around existing fields from depths ranging from 800 feet to 8,100 feet. Generally, those horizons range from the Miocene (~3,000 feet), Frio (~4,000 feet), Vicksburg (~5,000 feet) and deeper Yegua horizons (~8,000 feet). The existing fields in this area are older and contain relatively few modern exploratory wells. With the exception of continued evaluation of identifying additional prospects, all acquisition, processing and interpretation phases in the 3-D seismic project area are complete. As of December 31, 2000, we have participated in seven exploratory wells on the project. Of those, three gross (.38 net) new field discovery wells have been completed. The four gross (.50 net) remaining wells are classified as dry holes. Included in the dry hole count is one well that was initially completed as a new field discovery, but was plugged and abandoned in January 2001 producing 25 MMcf before watering out. Gross reserves classified as proved developed producing from each of the three wells range from 45 MMcf to 370 MMcf. After the drilling of each well, future drilling projects are subject to change based upon the gathering and evaluation of engineering and geological data and refining the interpretation of the 3-D seismic data. We are currently reviewing other prospects in the project area as the operator continues to evaluate and recommend other prospective target zones.
EAST TEXAS 3-D SEISMIC PROJECT. We have an 18.5185% working interest (13.6667 net revenue interest) in a gas play based upon 200 square miles of 3-D seismic data. This prospect area is located adjacent to a prolific field in which similar features in the project area have resulted in some wells that have produced in excess of 15 Bcf per well. The Company has agreed to participate in the leasing of seven prospects identified to date. Multiple producing horizons are likely to be encountered, with the primary objective in this play targeted at a depth of approximately 9,000 feet.
OTHER EXPLORATION PROJECTS
BELMONT LAKE PROSPECT. Toreador has a 25% working interest (18.75% net revenue interest) in this Wilkinson County, Mississippi prospect that is targeting potential producing zones in the Wilcox formation at depths ranging from 7,900 feet to 8,400 feet. The No. 1 Rosenblatt "BL" was spudded in November 2000 and reached a total depth of approximately 8500 feet. Eighteen feet of pay was encountered in the Wilcox Minter "B" sand. This sand was perforated in February 2001 initially flow testing at a rate of 65 barrels of oil per day. This well is located in the flood plain of the Mississippi River. As a result of high water in the area, the Rosenblatt well has been shut-in pending modifications to the surface facilities and the installation of pumping equipment.
WEST SHULER PROSPECT. Toreador has a 20% working interest (15% net revenue interest) in this Union County, Arkansas prospect that is to test the Lower Cretaceous Hill sandstone at a depth of 3,100 feet. The new field discovery well was spudded in October 2000 and reached a total depth of approximately 3,600 feet. Sixteen feet of pay was encountered in the Hill sand and is currently producing at the rate of 150 barrels of oil per day and no water. The first of several planned offsets has been drilled and is currently being completed.
BALDRIDGE CANYON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Toreador elected to participate in drilling a 11,300 foot Morrow Sand development well proposed by a third party operator in the Baldridge Canyon Field, Eddy County, New Mexico. The Company participated with its 15.619% working interest in the No. 1 Baldridge Canyon "7" State Com. well. Thirty-one feet of pay was encountered in the Morrow Sand and is currently flowing at a daily rate of 1200 Mcf and eight to ten barrels of condensate. Toreador has identified at least two additional well sites for development drilling and is currently exploring various opportunities to develop this area. This project is an exploitation opportunity that was created from an acquisition that we made in 1993.
SHALLOW WATERS - GULF COAST REGION. We have entered into a joint venture relationship to participate in exploration prospects in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Mexico. We will have the option, but not the obligation, to participate in selected prospects.
MARKETS AND COMPETITION
Our oil and gas production is sold to various purchasers typically in the areas where the oil or gas is produced. Revenues from the sale of oil and gas production accounted for 94%, 76% and 85% of the Company's consolidated revenues for the three years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The Company does not receive a material amount of its revenues from external customers domiciled in foreign countries. Generally, we do not refine or process any of the oil and gas we produce. We are currently able to sell, under contract or in the spot market through the operator, substantially all of the oil and the gas we are capable of producing at current market prices. Substantially all of our oil and gas is sold under short-term contracts or contracts providing for periodic adjustments or in the spot market; therefore, our revenue streams are highly sensitive to changes in current market prices. Our gas markets are pipeline companies as opposed to end users. See "Item 1. Business -- Risk Factors - Volatility of Oil and Gas Prices," for a discussion of the risks of commodity price fluctuations.
The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. We encounter strong competition from other independent operators and from major oil companies in acquiring properties, in contracting for drilling equipment and in securing trained personnel. Many of these competitors have financial and technical resources and staffs substantially larger than those available to us. As a result, our competitors may be able to pay more for desirable leases and they may pay more to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties or prospects than our financial or personnel resources will permit us.
We are also affected by competition for drilling rigs and the availability of tubular goods and certain other equipment. While the oil and gas industry has experienced shortages of drilling rigs and equipment, pipe and personnel in the past, we are not presently experiencing any shortages and do not foresee any such shortages in the near future, however, we are unable to predict how long current market conditions will continue.
Competition for attractive oil and gas producing properties, undeveloped leases and drilling rights is also strong, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete satisfactorily in acquiring properties. Many major oil companies have publicly indicated their decisions to concentrate on overseas activities and have been actively marketing certain producing properties for sale to independent oil and gas producers. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in acquiring any such properties.
REGULATION
GENERAL FEDERAL AND STATE REGULATION
From time to time political developments and federal and state laws and regulations affect our operations in varying degrees. Price control, tax and other laws relating to the oil and gas industry, changes in such laws and changing administrative regulations affect our oil and gas production, operations and economics. There are currently no price controls on oil, condensate or natural gas liquids. To the extent price controls remain applicable after the enactment of the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act of 1989, we believe that price controls will not have a significant impact on the prices received by us for gas produced in the near future.
We review legislation affecting the oil and gas industry for amendment or expansion. The legislative review frequently increases our regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue and have issued rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, compliance with which is often difficult and costly and certain of which may carry substantial penalties if we were to fail to comply. We cannot predict how existing regulations may be interpreted by enforcement agencies or the courts, whether amendments or additional regulations will be adopted, nor what effect such interpretations and changes may have on our business or financial conditions.
Matters subject to regulation include:
o discharge permits for drilling operations;
o drilling and abandonment bonds or other financial responsibility requirements;
o reports concerning operations;
o the spacing of wells;
o unitization and pooling of properties and
o taxation.
GAS REGULATION AND THE EFFECT ON MARKETING
Historically, interstate pipeline companies generally acted as wholesale merchants by purchasing gas from producers and reselling the gas to local distribution companies and large end users. Commencing in late 1985, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC") issued a series of orders that have had a major impact on interstate gas pipeline operations, services, and rates, and thus have significantly altered the marketing and price of gas. The FERC's key rule making action, Order No. 636, issued in April 1992, required each interstate pipeline to, among other things, "unbundle" its traditional bundled sales services and create and make available on an open and nondiscriminatory basis numerous constituent services (such as gathering services, storage services, firm and interruptible transportation services, and standby sales and gas balancing services), and to adopt a new rate making methodology to determine appropriate rates for those services. To the extent the pipeline company or its sales affiliate makes gas sales as a merchant in the future, it does so pursuant to private contracts in direct competition with all other sellers, such as Toreador; however, pipeline companies and their affiliates were not required to remain "merchants" of gas, and most of the interstate pipeline companies have become "transporters only." In subsequent orders, the FERC largely affirmed the major features of Order No. 636 and denied a stay of the implementation of the new rules pending judicial review. By the end of 1994, the FERC had concluded the Order No. 636 restructuring proceedings, and, in general, accepted rate filings implementing Order No. 636 on every major interstate pipeline. However, even through the implementation of Order No. 636 on individual interstate pipelines is essentially complete, many of the individual pipeline restructuring proceedings, as well as orders on rehearing of Order No. 636 itself and the regulations promulgated thereunder, are subject to pending appellate review and could possibly be changed as a result of future court orders. We cannot predict whether the FERC's orders will be affirmed on appeal or what the effects will be on our business.
We own indirect interests in certain gas facilities that we believe meet the traditional tests the FERC has used to establish a company's status as a gatherer not subject to FERC jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act of 1938. Moreover, recent orders of the FERC have been more liberal in their reliance upon or use of the traditional tests, such that in many instances, what was once classified as "transmission" may now be classified as "gathering." We transport our own gas through these facilities. We also transport a portion of our gas through gathering facilities owned by others, including interstate pipelines, and the cost and availability of that transportation also could be affected by the developments referred to in the following paragraph.
In recent years the FERC also has pursued a number of other important policy initiatives, which could significantly affect the marketing of gas. Some of the more notable of these regulatory initiatives include:
o a series of orders in individual pipeline proceedings articulating a policy of generally approving the voluntary divestiture of interstate pipeline owned gathering facilities by interstate pipelines to their affiliates (the so-called "spin down" of previously regulated gathering facilities to the pipeline's nonregulated affiliate) and to non-affiliates (a so called "spin off"), a number of which have been approved and implemented;
o the completion of rule making involving the regulation of pipelines with marketing affiliates under Order No. 497;
o the FERC's ongoing efforts to promulgate standards for pipeline electronic bulletin boards and electronic data exchange;
o a generic inquiry into the pricing of interstate pipeline capacity;
o efforts to refine the FERC's regulations controlling operation of the secondary market for released pipeline capacity and
o a policy statement regarding market based rates and other non-cost-based rates for interstate pipeline transmission and storage capacity.
Several of these initiatives are intended to enhance competition in gas markets, although some of these initiatives, such as "spin downs", may have the adverse effect of increasing the cost of doing business to some in the industry if the new, unregulated owners of those facilities monopolize them. The FERC has attempted to address some of these concerns in its orders authorizing such "spin downs" by requiring nondiscriminatory access and prohibiting "tying" access to pipeline transportation to other services of an affiliate, imposing certain contract requirements, and retaining jurisdiction if an affiliate undermines open and nondiscriminatory access to the interstate pipeline. The FERC also has imposed additional requirements on interstate pipelines seeking to abandon facilities certificated under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and to terminate service from both certificated and uncertificated activities. It remains to be seen what effect these activities will have on access to markets and the cost of doing business. Further, some of the orders and regulations of the FERC establishing these initiatives and approving actions thereunder have been appealed and remain subject to further action by an appellate court and the FERC. We cannot predict what the ultimate effect of these and other orders of the FERC will have on our production and marketing, or whether the FERC's orders on these matters will be affirmed by an appellate court. As to all of these recent FERC initiatives, the ongoing, or in some instances, preliminary evolving nature of these regulatory initiatives also makes it impossible at this time for us to predict their ultimate impact on our business.
FEDERAL AND STATE TAXATION
The federal and state governments may propose tax initiatives that affect us. We are unable to determine what effect, if any, future proposals would have on product demand or our results of operations.
STATE REGULATION
The various states in which we conduct activities regulate our drilling, operation and production of oil and gas wells, including the method of developing new fields, spacing of wells, the prevention and cleanup of pollution, and maximum daily production allowables based on market demand and conservation considerations.
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
Exploration, development and production of oil and gas, including operation of saltwater injection and disposal wells, are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations can increase the costs of planning, designing, installing and operating oil and gas wells. Our domestic activities are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations, including, but not limited to:
o the Oil Pollution Act of 1990;
o the Clean Water Act;
o the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA");
o the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA");
o the Clean Air Act and
o the Safe Drinking Water Act,
as well as state regulations promulgated under comparable state statutes. These laws and regulations:
o require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences;
o restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities;
o limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas and
o impose substantial liabilities for pollution that might result from our operations.
We also are subject to regulations governing the handling, transportation, storage and disposal of naturally occurring radioactive materials that are found in our oil and gas operations. Civil and criminal fines and penalties may be imposed for non-compliance with these environmental laws and regulations. Additionally, these laws and regulations require the acquisition of permits or other governmental authorizations before undertaking certain activities, limit or prohibit other activities because of protected areas or species and impose substantial liabilities for cleanup of pollution.
Under the Oil Pollution Act, a release of oil into water or other areas designated by the statue could result in Toreador being held responsible for the costs of remediating such a release, specified damages and natural resource damages. The extent of that liability could be extensive, as set forth in the statute, depending on the nature of the release. A release of oil in harmful quantities or other materials into water or other specified areas could also result in Toreador being held responsible under the Clear Water Act for the cost of remediation, and for civil and criminal fines and penalties.
CERCLA and comparable state statutes, also known as "Superfund" laws, can impose joint, several and retroactive liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. In practice, cleanup costs are usually allocated among various responsible parties. Potentially liable parties include site owners or operators, past owners or operators under certain conditions and entities that arrange for the disposal or treatment of, or transport of hazardous substances found at the site. Although CERCLA, as amended, currently exempts petroleum, including, but not limited to, crude oil, gas and natural gas liquids from the definition of hazardous substance, our operations may involve the use or handling of other materials that may be classified as hazardous substances under CERCLA. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the exemption will be preserved in any future amendments to CERCLA.
RCRA and comparable state and local requirements impose standards for the management, including treatment, storage and disposal of both hazardous and nonhazardous solid wastes. We generate hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste in connection with our routine operations. From time to time, proposals have been made that would reclassify certain oil and gas wastes, including wastes generated during pipeline, drilling and production operations, as "hazardous wastes" under RCRA which would make such solid wastes subject to much more stringent handling, transportation, storage, disposal and clean-up requirements. This development could have a significant impact on our operating costs. While state laws vary on this issue, state initiatives to further regulate oil and gas wastes could have a similar impact on our operations.
Because previous owners and operators have conducted oil and gas exploration and production, and possibly other activities, at some of our properties, materials from these operations remain on some of our properties and in some instances require remediation. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify the sellers of producing properties from whom we have acquired reserves against certain liabilities for environmental claims associated with such properties. While we do not believe the costs to be incurred by us for compliance and remediating previously or currently owned or operated properties will be material, we cannot guarantee that these potential costs will not result in material expenditures.
Additionally, in the course of our routine oil and gas operations, surface spills and leaks, including casing leaks, of oil or other materials occur, and we may incur costs for waste handling and environmental compliance. Notwithstanding our lack of control over wells controlled by others, the failure of the operator to comply with applicable environmental regulations may, in certain circumstances, be attributable to us.
It is not anticipated that we will be required in the near future to expend amounts that are material in relation to our total capital expenditures program by reason of environmental laws and regulations, but inasmuch as such laws and regulations are frequently changed, we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance. There can be no assurance that more stringent laws and regulations protecting the environment will not be adopted or that we will not otherwise incur material expenses in connection with environmental laws and regulations in the future.
OTHER PROPOSED LEGISLATION
The recent trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. For instance, legislation has been proposed in Congress from time to time that would reclassify certain crude oil and gas exploitation and production wastes as "hazardous wastes" which would make the reclassified wastes subject to much more stringent handling, disposal and clean-up requirements. If such legislation were to be enacted, it could have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as the oil and gas industry in general. Initiatives to further regulate the disposal of crude oil and gas wastes are also pending in certain states, and these various initiatives could have a similar impact on us. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In addition to compliance costs, government entities and other third parties may assert substantial liabilities against owners and operators of oil and gas properties for oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages, including damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred, the payment of which could reduce or eliminate the funds available for project investment or result in loss of our properties. Although we maintain insurance coverage we consider to be customary in the industry, we are not fully insured against certain of these risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of high premium costs. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may lose substantial portions of properties due to hazards that cannot be insured against or have not been insured against due to prohibitive premium costs or for other reasons. The imposition of any such liabilities on us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
EMPLOYEES
As of March 16, 2001, we employed eleven full-time employees. None of our employees are represented by unions or covered by collective bargaining agreements. To date, we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages due to labor problems, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. As needed, we also utilize the services of independent consultants on a contract basis.
RISK FACTORS
There are various risks involved in owning our Common Stock, including those described below.
INDUSTRY RISKS
VOLATILITY OF OIL AND GAS PRICES
Our future financial condition and results of operations depend upon the prices we receive for our oil and gas and the costs of acquiring, developing and producing oil and gas. Currently, oil and gas prices are favorable. Historically, oil and gas prices have been volatile and are subject to fluctuations in response to changes in supply, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are also beyond our control. These factors include:
o the level of domestic production;
o the availability of imported oil and gas;
o actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations;
o the availability of transportation systems with adequate capacity;
o the availability of competitive fuels;
o fluctuating and seasonal demand for gas;
o conservation and the extent of governmental regulation of production;
o the effect of weather;
o foreign and domestic government relations;
o the price of domestic and imported oil and gas and
o the overall economic environment.
A substantial or extended decline in oil and/or gas prices could have a material adverse effect on the estimated value of our gas and oil reserves, and on our financial position, results of operations and access to capital. Our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity, to repay current or future indebtedness and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms is substantially dependent upon oil and gas prices.
POTENTIAL INABILITY TO DEVELOP ADDITIONAL RESERVES
Our future success as an oil and gas producer, as is generally the case in the industry, depends upon our ability to find, develop and acquire additional oil and gas reserves that are profitable. If we are unable to conduct successful development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, our proved reserves will generally decline as reserves are produced. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate additional reserves or that we will drill economically productive wells or acquire properties containing proved reserves.
DRILLING RISKS
Our drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. We may incur significant expenditures for the identification and acquisition of properties and for the drilling and completion of wells. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. In addition, any use by us of 3-D seismic and other advanced technology to explore for oil and gas requires greater pre-drilling expenditures than traditional drilling strategies. We cannot assure the success of our future drilling activities.
ESTIMATES OF OIL AND GAS RESERVES
Numerous uncertainties are inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves, including many factors beyond our control. This report contains an estimate of our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net cash flows and revenue generated by the proved oil and gas reserves based upon reports of our independent petroleum engineers. Such reports rely upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the Securities and Exchange Commission, as to constant oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds, and such reports should not be construed as the current market value of the estimated proved reserves. The process of estimating oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each property. As a result, such estimates are inherently an imprecise evaluation of reserve quantities and future net revenue. Our actual future production, revenue, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those we have assumed in the estimate. Any significant variance in our assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantity and value of reserves set forth in this report. In addition, our reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision, based upon production history, results of future exploitation and development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors.
OPERATING HAZARDS AND UNINSURED RISKS
Our operations are subject to the risks inherent in the oil and gas industry, including the risks of:
o fire, explosions, and blowouts;
o pipe failure;
o abnormally pressured formations and
o environmental accidents such as oil spills, gas leaks, ruptures or discharges of toxic gases, brine or well fluids into the environment (including groundwater contamination).
The occurrence of any of these events could result in substantial losses to Toreador due to:
o injury or loss of life;
o severe damage to or destruction of property, resources and equipment;
o pollution or other environmental damage;
o clean-up responsibilities;
o regulatory investigation and
o penalties and suspension of operations.
In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks described above. We cannot assure you that any insurance maintained by us will be adequate to cover any such losses or liabilities. Further, we cannot predict the continued availability of insurance, or availability at commercially acceptable premium levels. We do not carry business interruption insurance. Losses and liabilities arising from uninsured or under-insured events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations.
From time to time, due primarily to contract terms, pipeline interruptions or weather conditions, the producing wells in which we own an interest have been subject to production curtailments. The curtailments range from production being partially restricted to wells being completely shut-in. The duration of curtailments may vary from a few days to several months. In most cases we are provided only limited notice as to when production will be curtailed and the duration of such curtailments. We are not currently experiencing any material curtailment on our production.
COMPANY RISKS
CONTROL BY CERTAIN STOCKHOLDERS
As of January 31, 2001, the current officers and directors of the Company as a group held a beneficial interest in approximately 52% of our Common Stock (including shares issuable upon exercise of stock options for Common Stock or conversion of the Company's Series A Preferred Stock held by affiliates of certain directors).
EFFECTS OF INDEBTEDNESS
At December 31, 2000, Toreador's debt to equity ratio was 99%. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future as we execute our acquisition and exploration strategy. See section entitled "Potential Need for Additional Financing for Continued Growth" below for more details.
Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will be dependent upon our future performance, which will be subject to oil and gas prices, our level of production, general economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that some or all of these factors will not adversely affect our future performance. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation -- Liquidity and Capital Resources."
Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including:
o a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes;
o covenants contained in our debt obligations will require us to meet certain financial tests, and other restrictions will limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to dispose of assets and may affect our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business, including possible acquisition activities and
o our ability to obtain additional financing in the future may be impaired.
A default under our credit facility would permit the lender to accelerate repayments of the loan and to foreclose on the collateral securing the loan, including certain oil and gas properties. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Liquidity and Capital Resources."
CAPABILITY TO IDENTIFY ALL ACQUISITION RISKS
Generally, it is not feasible for us to review in detail every individual risk involved in an acquisition. Our business strategy includes future acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties. Any future acquisitions generally entail an assessment of recoverable reserves, future oil and gas prices, operating costs, potential environmental and other liabilities and other similar factors. Ordinarily, review efforts are focused on the higher-valued properties. However, even a detailed review of certain properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems, nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections are not always performed on every well, and potential problems, such as mechanical integrity of equipment and environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even if we identify problems, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of such problems.
The Texona Petroleum Corporation merger, Four States Property Acquisition and the Lario Property Acquisition represent major steps in our growth strategy. However, our increased size and scope of operations will present us with significant challenges due to the increased time and resources required in our management effort. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our future operations under present conditions can be effectively managed to realize the goals set forth on future property acquisitions.
POTENTIAL NEED FOR ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR CONTINUED GROWTH
The growth of our business will require substantial capital on a continuing basis. We may be unable to obtain additional capital on satisfactory terms and conditions. Thus, we may lose opportunities to acquire oil and gas properties and businesses. In addition, our pursuit of additional capital could result in incurring additional indebtedness or issuing and adding potentially dilutive equity securities. We also may utilize the capital currently expected to be available for our present operations. The amount and timing of our future capital requirements, if any, will depend upon a number of factors, including:
o drilling costs;
o transportation costs;
o equipment costs;
o marketing expenses;
o oil and gas prices;
o staffing levels and competitive conditions and
o any purchases or dispositions of assets.
Our failure to obtain any required additional financing could materially and adversely affect our growth, cash flow and earnings.
NATURE OF PROPERTY INTERESTS
On the Southeastern States Holdings, we own interests in minerals that include executive rights (the rights to sign leases) as well as rights to receive portions of lease bonuses, delay rentals and royalties.
On the Texas Holdings, we own interests in minerals that include rights to receive lease bonuses, delay rentals and royalties, except, unlike our Southeastern States Holdings, we generally do not own the executive rights which are typically held by surface owners. Therefore, we must rely on the owners of the executive rights to execute leases of the acreage. In situations in which we have acquired working interests in acreage where we have mineral rights, we have acquired those interests through the signing of leases by holders of the executive rights. While the majority of the owners holding those executive rights have worked closely with us in the past, each acts independently of us in their decisions to execute leases. In addition, since our interests are in the form of mineral interests, royalty interests or non-operator working interests, we do not have control over drilling or operating decisions on the properties in which we have an interest.
MARKETING RISKS
The marketing of our oil and gas production principally depends upon those facilities operated by others. The operations of those facilities may change and have a material adverse effect on the marketing of our oil and gas production.
KEY PERSONNEL
We are substantially dependent upon G. Thomas Graves III, President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Edward C. Marhanka, Vice President - Operations and Douglas W. Weir, Chief Financial Officer.
INVESTMENT RISKS
STOCK PRICE VOLATILITY
Because the volume of trading in shares of our Common Stock has been low historically, the sale of a substantial number of shares of the Common Stock in a short period of time could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock.
DIVIDENDS
From time to time the Company has paid cash dividends on its Common Stock. However, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. Our Common Stock is not a suitable investment for persons requiring current income.
GLOSSARY OF SELECTED OIL AND GAS TERMS
BBL. One stock tank barrel, or 42 U.S. gallons liquid volume, used herein in reference to crude oil or other liquid hydrocarbons.
BCF. One billion cubic feet of gas.
BCFE. One billion cubic feet of gas equivalents, converting one Bbl of oil to six Mcf of gas.
BOE. Barrel of oil equivalent converting six Mcf of gas to one barrel of oil.
"DEVELOPMENT WELL." A well drilled within the proved boundaries of an oil or gas reservoir with the intention of completing the stratigraphic horizon known to be productive.
"DRY WELL." A development or exploratory well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
"EXPLORATORY WELL." A well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir.
"GROSS ACRES" or "GROSS WELLS." The total number of acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working or any type of royalty interest is owned.
MCF. One thousand cubic feet of gas.
MCFE. One thousand cubic feet of gas equivalents, converting one Bbl of oil to six Mcf of gas.
MMCF. One million cubic feet of gas.
"NET ACRES" or "NET WELLS." The sum of the fractional working or any type of royalty interests owned in gross acres or gross wells.
"PRODUCING WELL" or "PRODUCTIVE WELL." A well that is producing oil or gas or that is capable of production.
"PROVED DEVELOPED RESERVES". The oil and gas reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. Additional oil and gas expected to be obtained through the application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques for supplementing the forces and mechanisms of primary recovery should be included as "proved developed reserves" only after testing by a pilot project or after the operation of an installed program has confirmed through production response that increased recovery will be achieved.
"PROVED RESERVES." The estimated quantities of crude oil, gas and gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions.
"PROVED UNDEVELOPED RESERVES." The oil and gas reserves that are expected to be recovered from new wells on undrilled acreage, or from existing wells where a relatively major expenditure is required for recompletion. Reserves on undrilled acreage shall be limited to those drilling units offsetting productive units that are reasonably certain of production when drilled. Proved reserves for other undrilled units can be claimed only where it can be demonstrated with certainty that there is continuity of production from the existing productive formation. Under no circumstances should estimates for proved undeveloped reserves be attributable to any acreage for which an application of fluid injection or other improved recovery techniques is contemplated, unless such techniques have been proved effective by actual tests in the area and in the same reservoir.
"ROYALTY INTEREST." An interest in an oil and gas property entitling the owner to a share of oil and gas production free of production costs.
"SEC PV-10." The present value of proved reserves is an estimate of the discounted future net cash flows from each property at December 31, 2000, or as otherwise indicated. Net cash flow is defined as net revenues less, after deducting production and ad valorem taxes, future capital costs and operating expenses, but before deducting federal income taxes. As required by rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the future net cash flows have been discounted at an annual rate of 10% to determine their "present value." The present value is shown to indicate the effect of time on the value of the revenue stream and should not be construed as being the fair market value of the properties. In accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission rules, estimates have been made using constant oil and gas prices and operating costs, at December 31, 2000, or as otherwise indicated.
"STANDARDIZED MEASURE." Under the Standardized Measure, future cash flows are estimated by applying year-end prices, adjusted for fixed and determinable escalations, to the estimated future production of year-end proved reserves. Future cash inflows are reduced by estimated future production and development costs based on period-end costs to determine pretax cash inflows. Future income taxes are computed by applying the statutory tax rate to the excess inflows over the Company's tax basis in the associated properties. Tax credits, net operating loss carryforwards, and permanent differences are also considered in the future tax calculation. Future net cash inflows after income taxes are discounted using a 10% annual discount rate to arrive at the Standardized Measure.
"UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE." Lease acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
"WORKING INTEREST." The operating interest which gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and a share of production, subject to all royalties, overriding royalties and other burdens and to all exploration, development and operational costs including all risks in connection therewith.
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
We own perpetual oil and gas mineral and royalty interests comprised of and commonly referred to as the Texas Holdings, the Southeastern States Holdings and the Four States Property Holdings, all of which are equal to approximately 2,643,000 gross acres.
TEXAS HOLDINGS
Our Texas Holdings are comprised of the Northern Ranch Minerals and the Southern Ranch Minerals and are equal to approximately 766,000 gross (461,000 net) acres.
NORTHERN RANCH MINERALS
We own mineral interests under approximately 334,000 gross acres located in Oldham and Hartley Counties, Texas. These minerals are all located in the geologic province commonly known as the Southern Dalhart Basin.
No wells were drilled on the Northern Ranch Minerals in 2000. As of March 16, 2001, no new wells have been drilled on this acreage. Inquiries by third parties to evaluate the minerals in this area have diminished the past two years mainly because the basin in which our minerals are located is considered to be oil bearing and not gas bearing. We believe more independent oil and gas producers are focusing their exploration efforts on gas projects while gas prices remain at all time highs.
SOUTHERN RANCH MINERALS
We own mineral interests under an aggregate of approximately 470,000 gross acres located in three geologic provinces commonly known as the Palo Duro Basin, the Matador Arch, and the Eastern Shelf.
PALO DURO BASIN - The Palo Duro Basin, where we own mineral interests under approximately 195,000 gross acres located in Motley and Cottle Counties, Texas, is a moderate depth depression between the Matador Arch on the south and the Amarillo uplift complex to the north. There was no leasing or drilling activity with respect to our mineral interests in this region in 2000.
MATADOR ARCH - The Matador Arch, where we own mineral interests under approximately 90,000 gross acres, is a prominent east-west structural positive traversing north Texas and southern Oklahoma. One gross (.15 net) well was successfully drilled and completed in the Wolfcamp at approximately 3,300 feet, pump testing at a daily rate of 50 barrels of oil per day extending the Matador Field. Toreador owns a 15% net royalty interest in this well. That same operator re-entered a drilled and abandoned well on the same lease, but it tested dry. In February 2001, the operator drilled another dry hole on the same lease.
EASTERN SHELF - The Eastern Shelf of the Midland Basin, where we own mineral interests under approximately 185,000 gross acres located primarily in Dickens County, Texas, is prospective for shallow Permian age oil accumulations in the Tannehill Sand and possible deeper objectives in the Pennsylvanian section.
In 2000, there were four gross (.19 net) wells drilled on our Pitchfork Ranch acreage. Two of the four wells are wells in which we participated for a working interest in an attempt to extend the Silver Spur (Tannehill) Field. Two other third party operators drilled two wells targeting the Tannehill in different areas of the Pitchfork Ranch acreage. All of the wells were dry, albeit that one of the wells offsetting the Silver Spur Field could have future utility as a water injector.
SOUTHEASTERN STATES HOLDINGS
In December 1998, the Company acquired approximately 1,775,000 gross (876,000 net) acres located in Mississippi, Alabama and Louisiana. Most of the Company's activity is generated along the southern half of each of these three states. Unlike our Texas Holdings, our mineral spread here is diversified over several geologic provinces and not highly concentrated and dense in one specific area. Conversely, we own a mineral position in every county in Mississippi and Alabama. The majority of the leasing and exploration activity on our minerals is in Mississippi.
MISSISSIPPI
The Company owns perpetual mineral interests in approximately 1,137,000 gross acres in Mississippi. The largest concentration of activity for our Southeastern States Holdings is in the geologic province commonly known as the Mississippi Salt Basin. This province primarily stretches from northeastern Louisiana across the southern half of Mississippi and just into the southwestern portions of Alabama. In another province of more recent importance is the development of a Deep Knox Gas discovery in northeastern Mississippi located just southwest and adjacent to the Black Warrior Basin. This basin extends from northeastern Mississippi into northwestern Alabama.
The majority of mineral leasing activity for the company occurs on the Mississippi portion of our Southeastern States Holdings. In 2000, we received approximately $475,000 in lease bonus and rental income from the leasing of approximately 4,900 net mineral acres.
MISSISSIPPI SALT BASIN
The Mississippi Salt Basin contains two major areas of exploration activity that currently provide us with the opportunity to gain significant reserve additions. The two areas are the Piercement Salt Domes and the Salt Ridges.
PIERCEMENT SALT DOMES - The Piercement Salt Dome activity is currently focused in the south-central portion of Mississippi in Covington, Jefferson Davis and Jones Counties, Mississippi. These geologic features have several target pay zones ranging from primary objectives in several Hosston Sandstones at depths of over 15,000 feet to secondary objectives in the Sligo and Paluxy formations at approximately 14,000 feet and 12,000 feet, respectively. The current success in this area is primarily attributed to the utilization of modern 3-D seismic technology. As a royalty owner we do not bear the burden of any expenses in exploring and developing any fields discovered.
SALT RIDGES - Salt Ridge exploration activity is resuming in Wayne County, Mississippi. The primary objectives are the Cotton Valley, Smackover and Norphlet formations ranging from 12,000 feet to 18,000 feet. The use of modern 3-D seismic technology has been critical to the success of this activity.
DEEP KNOX GAS
Current activity is centered in western Oktibbeha County, Mississippi, adjacent to the Black Warrior Basin, where several 15,000-foot plus Knox test wells have been completed since June 1998 as extensions of the Maben Field which was originally discovered in 1970. The No. 1 Sanders, the very first Maben Field extension well and one in which we own a .35% net royalty interest, flowed at a daily average rate of 5.2 MMcf of gas in January 2001 and has produced in excess of 4.2 Bcf. A year ago, this well flowed at a daily average rate of 5.8 MMcf. The same operator drilled and completed a second exploratory well in the play to the south, the #1 Georgia Pacific, which flowed at a marginal daily rate of approximately 400 Mcf of gas in June 1999. In January 2001, this well flowed for a daily average rate of 135 Mcf and has produced approximately 100 MMcf. We own a 2.79% net royalty interest in this well. A third well, the No. 1 Love Heirs, where we own a 1.4% net royalty interest, was drilled and completed by the same operator in August 2000. This well flowed for a daily average rate of 8.4 MMcf of gas in January 2001 and has produced approximately 1.0 Bcf in that short time.
This area continues to be extremely promising since very few wells have been drilled to the Knox formation in this region near or in the Black Warrior Basin. The operator's continued success, aided by the use of modern 3-D seismic technology, should fuel future drilling interest around the Maben Field area. Additionally, other companies are in the process of funding a research team to investigate the play into other regions inside and outside of Mississippi.
ALABAMA
The Company owns perpetual oil and gas mineral and royalty interests in approximately 622,000 gross acres in Alabama. We own a mineral position in every county in Alabama. Activity on our minerals in Alabama is not as significant as it is in Mississippi.
LOUISIANA
The Company owns oil and gas mineral and royalty interests in approximately 16,000 gross acres in Louisiana. Unlike the other states where we own perpetual minerals, the laws in Louisiana are such that the minerals
prescribe to the surface owner after 10 years have passed without any production or drilling on said lands. Since we do not own the surface rights in any of the properties that were acquired in December 1998, the consequences are that we do not maintain many of our mineral rights if production ceases for a period of 10 years.
FOUR STATE PROPERTY HOLDINGS
In September 1999, the Company acquired certain oil and gas royalty interests located in Arkansas, California, Kansas and Michigan. The holdings include approximately 140 producing wells in addition to approximately 56,000 gross (18,000 net) undeveloped acres. While we have experienced limited leasing activity on these holdings thus far, we continue to receive new revenues generated from additional drilling development in Arkansas and secondary recovery enhancements in California.
TEXONA PETROLEUM CORPORATION MERGER
In September 2000, the Company acquired an interest in close to 1,000 wells as a part of the Merger. While the wells are located in 12 states, the primary value is concentrated in Oklahoma, Texas and Louisiana. Almost all of the interests acquired were non-operated working interests. The estimated proved reserves for Texona totaled 6,806 MMcf and 449 MBbl for a total of 9,502 MMcfe (equivalent MMcf on six Mcf per one barrel of oil basis).
TITLE TO OIL AND GAS PROPERTIES
We have acquired interests in producing and non-producing acreage in the form of working interests, fee mineral interests, royalty interests and overriding royalty interests. Substantially all of our property interests are leased to third parties. The leases grant the lessee the right to explore for and extract oil and gas from specified areas. Consideration for a lease usually consists of a lump sum payment (i.e., bonus) and a fixed annual charge (i.e., delay rental) prior to production (unless the lease is paid up) and, once production has been established, a royalty based generally upon the proceeds from the sale of oil and gas. Once wells are drilled, a lease generally continues so long as production of oil and gas continues. In some cases, leases may be acquired in exchange for a commitment to drill or finance the drilling of a specified number of wells to predetermined depths. We receive annual delay rentals from lessees of certain properties in order to prevent the leases from terminating. Title to leasehold properties is subject to royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits and other similar interests and contractual arrangements customary in the oil and gas industry, and to liens incident to operating agreements, liens relating to amounts owed to the operator, liens for current taxes not yet due and other encumbrances. Substantial portions of our exploration and production properties are pledged as collateral under our credit facility, including a major portion of the Southeastern States Holdings.
As is common industry practice, we conduct little or no investigation of title at the time we acquire undeveloped properties, other than a preliminary review of local mineral records. However, we do conduct title investigations and, in most cases, obtain a title opinion of local counsel before commencement of drilling operations. We believe that the methods we utilize for investigating title prior to acquiring any property is consistent with practices customary in the oil and gas industry and that such practices are adequately designed to enable us to acquire good title to such properties. Some title risks, however, cannot be avoided, despite the use of customary industry practices.
Our properties are generally subject to:
o customary royalty and overriding royalty interests;
o liens incident to operating agreements and
o liens for current taxes and other burdens and minor encumbrances, easements and restrictions.
We believe that none of these burdens either materially detract from the value of our properties or materially interfere with their use in the operation of our business. Substantially all of our properties are pledged as collateral under our credit facility.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following tables summarize certain information regarding our estimated proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998. All such reserves are located in the United States. The estimates relating to our proved oil and gas reserves and future net revenues of oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2000 and December 31, 1999 are based upon reports prepared by LaRoche Petroleum Consultants. The estimates at December 31, 1998 included in this report are based upon reports prepared by Harlan Consulting. In accordance with the guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves and their SEC PV-10 are made using oil and gas sales prices in effect as of the dates of such estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties. For the three years ended December 31, our estimates of proved reserves, future net cash flows and SEC PV-10 for the life of the properties were estimated using the weighted average prices shown below for the life of the properties, before deduction of production, severance and ad valorem taxes. Included in the table is the percent change in the weighted-average price from the prior year.
Reserve estimates are imprecise and may be expected to change as additional information becomes available. Furthermore, estimates of oil and gas reserves, of necessity, are projections based on engineering data, and there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of such data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgement. Reserve reports of other engineers might differ from the reports contained herein. Results of drilling, testing, and production subsequent to the date of the estimate may justify revision of such estimate. Future prices received for the sale of oil and gas may be different from those used in preparing these reports. The amounts and timing of future operating and development costs may also differ from those used. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the reserves set forth herein will ultimately be produced nor can there be assurance that the proved undeveloped reserves will be developed within the periods anticipated. We emphasize with respect to the estimates prepared by independent petroleum engineers that the discounted future net cash inflows should not be construed as representative of the fair market value of the proved oil and gas properties belonging to us, since discounted future net cash inflows are based upon projected cash inflows which do not provide for changes in oil and gas prices nor for escalation of expenses and capital costs. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.
All reserves are evaluated at contract temperature and pressure that can affect the measurement of gas reserves. Operating costs, development costs and certain production-related and ad valorem taxes were deducted in arriving at the estimated future net cash flows. No provision was made for income operating methods and existing conditions at the prices and operating costs prevailing at the dates indicated above. The estimates of the SEC PV-10 from future net cash flows differ from the Standardized Measure set forth in Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, which is calculated after provision for future income taxes. There can be no assurance that these estimates are accurate predictions of future net cash flows from oil and gas reserves or their present value.
For additional information concerning our oil and gas reserves and estimates of future net revenues attributable thereto, see Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
COMPANY RESERVES
The following tables set forth our proved reserves of oil and gas and the SEC PV-10 thereof on an actual basis for each year in the three-year period ended December 31, 2000.
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES (1)
- ----------
SEC PV-10 OF PROVED RESERVES
- ---------- (1) SEC PV-10 differs from the Standardized Measure set forth in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, which is calculated after provision for future income taxes.
Except for the effect of changes in oil and gas prices, no major discovery or other favorable or adverse event is believed to have caused a significant change in these estimates of our proved reserves since December 31, 2000.
VOLUMES, PRICES AND COSTS
The following table sets forth certain information regarding volumes of our production of oil and gas, our average sales price per Bbl of crude oil and average sales price per Mcf of gas, together with our average production cost per BOE for each of the three years ended December 31, 2000 from producing interests:
- ----------
DRILLING ACTIVITY
The following table sets forth for each of the last three years the number of net exploratory and development wells drilled by us or on our behalf. An exploratory well is a well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir. A development well is a well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the respective year, regardless of when drilling was initiated; and "completion" refers to the installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil or gas, or, in the case of a dry well, to the reporting of the plugging date to the appropriate state regulatory agency.
- ----------
(1) A productive well is an exploratory or a development well that is not a dry well.
(2) A dry well is an exploratory or development well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
PRODUCING WELLS AND ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the gross and net producing oil and gas wells in which we owned an interest and the developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage held by us as of December 31, 2000. A "gross" well or acre is a well or acre in which we have a working interest or royalty interest. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which a working interest or royalty interest is owned. A "net" well or acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests and/or royalty interests in a gross well or acre equals one. The number of net wells or acres is the sum of the fractional working interests and/or royalty interests owned in gross wells or acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
- ----------
(1) Does not include wells that are considered to have a minor value on an individual basis.
(2) Undeveloped acreage is considered to be only those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves.
PRESENT ACTIVITIES
For the period January 1, 2001 through March 16, 2001, we participated in drilling three gross (0.32 net) development wells. Two of the wells were successfully completed as oil wells, one of which is on our Texas Holdings where we own a 9.38% net royalty interest. The third development well was successfully drilled as a gas well.
OFFICE LEASE
We occupy approximately 5,277 square feet of office space at 4809 Cole Avenue, Suite 108, Dallas, Texas 75205 under a lease from Chalk Stream Properties, L.P. Total rental expense for 2000 was $85,983.
ITEM 3.