ITEM 2. PROPERTIES.
The Company owns perpetual oil and gas mineral and royalty interests comprised of the Texas Holdings and the Southeastern States Holdings that total approximately 2,579,000 gross acres.
TEXAS HOLDINGS
Our Texas Holdings are comprised of the Northern Ranch Minerals and the Southern Ranch Minerals and equal approximately 804,000 gross acres.
NORTHERN RANCH MINERALS
We own mineral interests under approximately 334,000 gross acres located in Oldham and Hartley Counties, Texas. These minerals are all located in the geologic province commonly known as the Southern Dalhart Basin.
SOUTHERN DALHART BASIN. In January 1995, we leased approximately 13,000 acres on the Smith Ranch (formerly the Proctor Ranch) in Hartley County, Texas with the intent of accelerating third party interest in various projects which we generated. In January 1997, we entered into a farmout agreement with Corlena Oil Company (the operator) covering approximately 1,900 acres of our leasehold. In March 1997, we participated for a 25% working interest in drilling the first well to test Pennsylvanian age Granite Wash reservoirs. This initial exploratory well was plugged and
abandoned after testing water and non-commercial quantities of oil. The operator then conducted a 3-D seismic survey covering approximately 2,700 acres of our 13,000 acre leasehold. In January 1998, the operator drilled a new oil field discovery well, the #2-A Smith Ranch, to open the Pedarosa (Granite Wash) Field at approximately 5,500 feet. In addition to our working interest, we have a 15% net royalty interest. In March and April 1998 the Company participated in the drilling of two wells, both of which were dry.
In January 1999, we sold approximately 66,300 gross (49,700 net) mineral acres for $750,000. This acreage is commonly referred to as the Scharbauer Ranch acreage in Oldham County, Texas. This sale was a result of our new business strategy to divest the company's non-strategic assets. We plan to continue this divestment strategy as long as we receive what we believe are viable offers for our non-strategic minerals. See further discussion in Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
SOUTHERN RANCH MINERALS
The Company owns mineral interests under an aggregate of approximately 470,000 gross acres located in three geologic provinces commonly known as the Palo Duro Basin, the Matador Arch, and the Eastern Shelf.
PALO DURO BASIN. The Palo Duro Basin, where we own mineral interests under approximately 195,000 gross acres located in Motley and Cottle Counties, Texas, is a moderate depth depression between the Matador Arch on the south and the Amarillo uplift complex to the north. There was no leasing or drilling activity in 1998.
MATADOR ARCH. The Matador Arch, where we own mineral interests under approximately 90,000 gross acres, is a prominent east-west structural positive traversing North Texas and southern Oklahoma.
In January 1998, the Company participated in the testing and completion of a well as an extension to an existing field. Upon completion, this well was pumping at a daily rate of 36 Bbls of oil and three Bbls of water. Later in the first quarter of 1998, the Company participated in drilling one exploration well in the same field resulting in a dry well.
EASTERN SHELF. The Eastern Shelf of the Midland Basin, where we own mineral interests under approximately 185,000 gross acres located primarily in Dickens County, Texas, is prospective for shallow Permian age oil accumulations in the Tannehill Sand and possible deeper objectives in the Pennsylvanian section.
In the first quarter of 1998, the Company participated in drilling seven wells with the operator, resulting in two producing wells and five dry wells. During the month of January 1999, these two producing wells combined pumped at an average daily rate of 161 Bbls of oil.
SOUTHEASTERN STATES HOLDINGS
In December 1998, the Company acquired approximately 1,775,000 gross acres located in Mississippi, Alabama and Louisiana. Most of the Company's activity is generated along the southern half of each of these three states. Unlike our Texas Holdings, our mineral spread here is diversified over several geologic provinces and not highly concentrated and dense in one specific area. Conversely, we own a mineral position in every county in Mississippi and Alabama.
MISSISSIPPI
The Company owns perpetual mineral and royalty interests for oil, gas and other minerals in approximately 1,137,000 gross acres in Mississippi. The largest concentration of activity for our Southeastern States Holdings is in the geologic province commonly known as the Mississippi Salt Basin. This province primarily stretches from northeastern Louisiana across the southern half of Mississippi and just into the southwestern portions of Alabama. In another province of more recent importance is the development of a Deep Knox Gas discovery in northeastern Mississippi located just southwest and adjacent to the Black Warrior Basin. This basin extends from northeastern Mississippi into northwestern Alabama.
MISSISSIPPI SALT BASIN
Within the Mississippi Salt Basin, there are two major areas of activity which are currently providing us with the opportunity to gain significant reserve potential. They are in the areas of Piercement Salt Domes and Salt Ridges.
PIERCEMENT SALT DOMES. The Piercement Salt Dome activity is currently focused in the south-central portion of Mississippi in Jefferson Davis and Covington Counties, Mississippi. These geologic features have several target pay zones ranging from primary objectives in several Hosston Sandstones at depths of over 15,000 feet to secondary objectives in the Paluxy formation at approximately 12,000 feet. In Mississippi there are over five
(5) dozen salt domes alone. The success of this activity to date is greatly dependent and attributed to the advances of 3- D seismic technology.
In Jefferson Davis County, Mississippi, for instance, we are benefitting directly from the use of the latest 3- D seismic technology to exploit this activity. In June 1997, the Oakvale Dome Field was discovered in which the initial well was completed in the Hosston "Harper" Sand and is currently flowing for an average daily rate of approximately 10 MMcf of natural gas. In March 1999, a second well in the field was completed and recently tested at a daily rate flowing as high as 20 MMcf of natural gas from the commingling of the Hosston "Booth" Sand and the Hosston "H-1" and "H-2" Sands. Operations are underway to increase pipeline capacity from the current daily rate of approximately 15 MMcf of natural gas to a rate that allows the operator to produce at a daily rate in excess of 30 MMcf of natural gas. We own a 3.125% royalty interest in each of these wells and as a royalty owner do not bear the burden of any expenses in developing these fields. In addition, the operator is currently drilling its third well in the field and has permitted with the state the location for a fourth well which the operator has indicated that it plans to initiate drilling operations in the third quarter of 1999.
SALT RIDGES. Salt Ridge activity is currently underway in Wayne, Jones, Perry and Greene Counties, Mississippi. The primary objectives are the Cotton Valley, Smackover and Norphlet formations ranging from 12,000 feet to 18,000 feet. The use of 3-D seismic technology has been critical to the success of this activity.
This activity was initiated by the discovery of the Crawford Creek Field in Wayne County, Mississippi in 1994. As of December 1998 this field has produced nearly 3 million barrels of oil and 1.5 Bcf of natural gas from 15 wells out of the Cotton Valley and Hosston Sands.
Some of our acreage is in a favorable position to be leased and included in some units currently being formed by various operators which is near the most recent discovery well that tested for a daily rate of approximately 3 MMcf and 500 barrels of condensate.
DEEP KNOX GAS. Current activity is centered in Oktibbeha County, Mississippi, adjacent to the Black Warrior Basin, where a 15,000 foot Knox Gas well was completed in June 1998 and flowed for an average daily rate in January 1999 of six MMcf. We own a 0.35% royalty interest in this well. The operator is currently drilling a delineation well where we will own a royalty interest of approximately 2.9%.
Very few wells have been drilled to the Knox in this region near or in the Black Warrior Basin, thus giving new promise to the area. With the use of 3-D seismic technology, this well revitalizes the Maben Field which was originally discovered in 1970.
ALABAMA
The Company owns perpetual oil and gas mineral and royalty interests in approximately 622,000 gross acres in Alabama. Just as in Mississippi, we own a mineral position in every county in Alabama.
The major producing property for the Company in Alabama is the North Frisco City Fieldwide Unit located in the North Frisco City Field of Monroe County, Alabama.
LOUISIANA
The Company owns oil and gas mineral and royalty interests in approximately 16,000 gross acres in Louisiana. Unlike the other states where we own perpetual minerals, the laws in Louisiana are such that the minerals prescribe to the surface owner after 10 years have passed without any production or drilling on said lands. Since we do not own the surface rights in any of the properties that were acquired in December 1998, the consequences are that we do not maintain many of our mineral rights after production ceases for that period of 10 years.
TITLE TO OIL AND NATURAL GAS PROPERTIES
We have acquired interests in producing and non-producing acreage in the form of working interests, mineral interests, royalty interests and overriding royalty interests. Substantially all of our property interests are leased to third parties. The leases grant the lessee the right to explore for and extract oil and natural gas from specified areas. Consideration for a lease usually consists of a lump sum payment (i.e., bonus) and a fixed annual charge (i.e., delay rental) prior to production (unless the lease is paid up) and, once production has been established, a royalty based generally upon the proceeds from the sale of oil and natural gas. Once wells are drilled, a lease generally continues so long as production of oil and natural gas continues. In some cases, leases may be acquired in exchange for a commitment to drill or finance the drilling of a specified number of wells to predetermined depths. We receive annual delay rentals from lessees of certain properties in order to prevent the leases from terminating. Title to leasehold properties is subject to royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits and other similar interests and contractual arrangements customary in the oil and natural gas industry, and to liens incident to operating
agreements, liens relating to amounts owed to the operator, liens for current taxes not yet due and other encumbrances. A substantial portion of our exploration and production properties are pledged as collateral under our credit facility, including a major portion of the Howell Mineral Acquisition.
As is common industry practice, we conduct little or no investigation of title at the time we acquire undeveloped properties, other than a preliminary review of local mineral records. However, we do conduct title investigations and, in most cases, obtain a title opinion of local counsel before commencement of drilling operations. We believe that the methods we utilize for investigating title prior to acquiring any property is consistent with practices customary in the oil and gas industry and that such practices are adequately designed to enable us to acquire good title to such properties. Some title risks, however, cannot be avoided, despite the use of customary industry practices.
Our properties are generally subject to:
o customary royalty and overriding royalty interests; o liens incident to operating agreements; and o liens for current taxes and other burdens and minor encumbrances, easements and restrictions.
We believe that none of these burdens either materially detract from the value of our properties or materially interfere with their use in the operation of our business.
On the Southeastern States Holdings, we own interests in minerals that include executive rights as well as rights to receive portions of lease bonuses, delay rentals and royalties. On the Texas Holdings, we own interests in minerals that include rights to receive portions of lease bonuses, delay rentals and royalties, except, unlike our Southeastern States Holdings, we generally do not own the executive rights -- the rights to sign leases -- which are typically held by surface owners. Therefore, we must rely on the owners of the executive rights to execute leases of the acreage. In situations in which we have acquired working interests in acreage where we have mineral rights, we have acquired those interests through the signing of leases by holders of the executive rights. While the majority of the owners holding those executive rights have worked closely with us in the past, each acts independently of us in deciding to execute leases. In addition, since our interests are in the form of mineral interests, royalty interests or non-operator working interests, we do not have control over drilling or operating decisions on the properties in which we have an interest. In situations where we acquire a working interest we do not seek to become the operator. We currently operate and own a 100% working interest in one oil well.
OIL AND GAS RESERVES
The following tables summarize certain information regarding our estimated proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996. All such reserves are located in the United States. The estimates relating to our proved oil and gas reserves and future net revenues of oil and gas reserves at December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1996 are based upon reports prepared by Harlan Consulting. The estimates at December 31, 1997 included in this report are based upon reports prepared by another outside engineering firm. In accordance with guidelines of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves and their SEC PV-10 are made using oil and gas sales prices in effect as of the dates of such estimates and are held constant throughout the life of the properties. For the three years ended December 31, our estimates of proved reserves, future net cash flows and SEC PV-10 for the life of the properties were estimated using the weighted average prices shown below for the life of the properties, before deduction of production, severance and ad valorem taxes. Included in the table is the percent change in the weighted-average price from the prior year.
Reserve estimates are imprecise and may be expected to change as additional information becomes available. Furthermore, estimates of oil and gas reserves, of necessity, are projections based on engineering data, and there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of such data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgement. Reserve reports of other engineers might differ from the reports contained herein. Results of drilling, testing, and production subsequent to the date of the estimate may justify revision of such estimate. Future prices received for the sale of oil and gas may be different from those used in preparing these reports. The amounts and timing of future operating and development costs may also differ from those used. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the reserves set forth herein will ultimately be produced nor can there be assurance that the proved undeveloped reserves will be developed within the periods anticipated. We emphasize with respect to the estimates prepared by independent petroleum engineers that the discounted future net cash inflows should not be construed as
representative of the fair market value of the proved oil and gas properties belonging to us, since discounted future net cash inflows are based upon projected cash inflows which do not provide for changes in oil and gas prices nor for escalation of expenses and capital costs. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based.
All reserves are evaluated at contract temperature and pressure which can affect the measurement of natural gas reserves. Operating costs, development costs and certain production-related and ad valorem taxes were deducted in arriving at the estimated future net cash flows. No provision was made for income operating methods and existing conditions at the prices and operating costs prevailing at the dates indicated above. The estimates of the SEC PV-10 from future net cash flows differ from the Standardized Measure set forth in Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, which is calculated after provision for future income taxes. There can be no assurance that these estimates are accurate predictions of future net cash flows from oil and natural gas reserves or their present value.
For additional information concerning our oil and natural gas reserves and estimates of future net revenues attributable thereto, see Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Company Reserves
The following tables set forth our proved reserves of oil and gas and the SEC PV-10 thereof on an actual basis for each year in the three-year period ended December 31, 1998.
PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES (1)
- ----------
(1) Reflects the addition of reserves acquired in the Howell Mineral Acquisition.
SEC PV-10 OF PROVED RESERVES
- ----------
(1) SEC PV-10 differs from the Standardized Measure set forth in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company, which is calculated after provision for future income taxes.
(2) Reflects the addition of reserves acquired in the Howell Mineral Acquisition.
Except for the effect of changes in oil and gas prices, no major discovery or other favorable or adverse event is believed to have caused a significant change in these estimates of our proved reserves since December 31, 1998.
VOLUMES, PRICES AND COSTS
The following table sets forth certain information regarding volumes of our production of oil and natural gas, our average sales price per Bbl of crude oil and average sales price per Mcf of natural gas, together with our average production cost per BOE for each of the three years ended December 31, 1998 from producing interests:
- ----------
(1) The data presented for the year ended December 31, 1998 would include only one-half month of production from the Howell Mineral Acquisition since the closing date was December 16, 1998.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
All of the activity described below occurred on our Texas Holdings. The Howell Mineral Acquisition was not completed until December 1998 and therefore the Company did not include any drilling activity on these properties prior to the date of the acquisition. The following table sets forth for each of the last three years the number of net exploratory and development wells drilled by us or on our behalf. An exploratory well is a well drilled to find and produce oil or gas in an unproved area, to find a new reservoir in a field previously found to be productive of oil or gas in another reservoir, or to extend a known reservoir. A development well is a well drilled within the proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. The number of wells drilled refers to the number of wells completed at any time during the respective year, regardless of when drilling was initiated; and "completion" refers to the installation of permanent equipment for the production of oil or gas, or, in the case of a dry well, to the reporting of the plugging date to the appropriate state regulatory agency.
- ----------
(1) A productive well is an exploratory or a development well that is not a dry well.
(2) A dry well is an exploratory or development well found to be incapable of producing either oil or gas in sufficient quantities to justify completion as an oil or gas well.
(3) One (1) gross (0.25 net) exploratory well, which was a producer, was drilled in December 1997 but completed in January 1998.
(4) One (1) gross (0.44 net) development well, which was a producer, was drilled in December 1997 but completed in January 1998.
PRODUCING WELLS AND ACREAGE
The following table sets forth the gross and net producing oil and gas wells in which we owned an interest and the developed and undeveloped gross and net leasehold acreage held by us as of December 31, 1998. A "gross" well or acre is a well or acre in which we have a working interest or royalty interest. The number of gross wells is the total number of wells in which a working interest or royalty interest is owned. A "net" well or acre is deemed to exist when the sum of fractional ownership working interests and/or royalty interests in a gross well or acre equals one. The number of net wells or acres is the sum of the fractional working interests and/or royalty interests owned in gross wells or acres expressed as whole numbers and fractions thereof.
- -------------
(1) Includes the properties from the Howell Mineral Acquisition. Does not include wells that are considered to have a minor value on an individual basis.
(2) Excludes wells or acres in which we own less than a 1% working or royalty interest and are considered to have minor value.
(3) Undeveloped acreage is considered to be only those leased acres on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether or not the acreage contains proved reserves.
PRESENT ACTIVITIES
For the period January 1, 1999 through March 17, 1999, we participated in drilling one gross (0.03 net) development well not on our mineral holdings and it was successfully completed as a gas well.
OFFICE LEASE
We occupy approximately 2,500 square feet of office space at 4809 Cole Avenue, Suite 108, Dallas, Texas 75205 under a sublease from Wilco Properties, Inc.
ITEM 3.