Item 2 - Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, and September 30, 2006.
Subsequent Stock Issuances
On January 25, 2007 and June 19, 2007, the Board of Directors declared dividends payable to holders of Series B Preferred Stock in payment of dividends accumulated through December 31, 2006 and June 30, 2007, respectively. As a result, we issued 227,500 and 526,327 restricted shares of common stock, with a fair value of approximately $1,354,000 and $3,426,000, respectively, based on the market price of our common stock on the respective declaration date. The issuances of the shares were affected in reliance on the exemption set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. (See the discussion above for additional information regarding the Preferred Stock SPA.)
During the first quarter of 2007, certain stock options aggregating 225,000 shares, held by an accredited investor (and former executive officer), were exercised at $2.00 per share. The $450,000 aggregate exercise price of such shares was paid for with the delivery of 73,171 shares of common stock previously held by the former executive officer for more than six months. The receipt of these shares is reflected in treasury stock. The Company then issued 225,000 restricted shares of common stock from treasury, on the same day, with a fair market value of $6.15 per share on the exercise date. The issuance of the shares was affected in reliance on the exemption set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
Also during March 2007, the Company issued 48,169 restricted shares of common stock from treasury to an officer in satisfaction of a provision in his employment agreement requiring the issuance of shares worth $300,000. The issuance of the shares was affected in reliance on the exemption set forth in Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
Stock Performance Graph
The graph below shows the cumulative total stockholder return assuming the investment of $100 on December 31, 2001 (and the reinvestment of dividends thereafter) in each of NYFIX common stock, the S&P 500 Index, and the Nasdaq Computer Index.
Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data
The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this report on Form 10-K. The information presented in the following tables has been restated to reflect the 2006 disposition of NYFIX Overseas which previously comprised our OBMS Division, as a discontinued operation.
(1)
Includes $1.3 million, $0.2 million, $0.6 million, $3.7 million, and $(2.0) million of stock-based compensation expense for the years ended 2006, 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
(2)
reflects the full consolidation of Renaissance beginning in July 2003. Prior to that date, 100% of the operating results of Renaissance were recognized under the equity method from the date of initial investment.
(3)
reflects the full consolidation of EuroLink and Javelin Technologies, Inc. beginning in March 2002 upon initial acquisition, 100% of the operating results of Renaissance under the equity method beginning in October upon initial investment and the full consolidation of NYFIX Millennium beginning in February 2002. Prior to that date, 100% of the operating results of NYFIX Millennium were recognized under the equity method from the date of initial investment.
(4)
Excludes amounts attributable to discontinued operations with the exception of total assets and stockholders’ equity.
Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
The following discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Exchange Act, and Section 27A of the Securities Act. Forward-looking statements are any statements other than statements of historical fact. In some cases, forward-looking statements are identified by words such as “believes,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “will,” “may,” and similar expressions. In addition, any statements that refer to our plans, expectations, strategies or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results or conditions to differ from those anticipated by these and other forward-looking statements include those more fully described in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business may have changed since the date hereof, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
You should read this discussion in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included in this report on Form 10-K.
Overview
We are a pioneer in electronic trading solutions and we continue to transform trading through innovation. The NYFIX MarketplaceTM is a global community of trading counterparties utilizing innovative services that optimize the business of trading, including trading workstations, middle office trade automation technologies and trade messaging services. NYFIX Millennium provides the NYFIX MarketplaceTM with enhanced methods of accessing liquidity. We also provide value-added informational and analytic services and powerful tools for measuring execution quality. As a trusted business partner and service provider to investment managers, mutual fund, pension fund and hedge fund managers (the Buy-Side) and brokerage firms and banks (the Sell-Side), NYFIX enables ultra-low touch, low impact market access and end-to-end transaction processing.
We operate businesses that design, produce and sell technology-based products and services to professional financial services organizations that are engaged in trading activities including traditional asset management (including the trading of those assets), proprietary trading, and/or the handling of client orders in the U.S. and international securities markets.
Many of our products and services utilize the FIX Protocol which is a messaging standard developed specifically for real-time electronic exchange of securities trading information.
We believe our innovative NYFIX products and services deliver value-added improvements in speed, quality of execution and cost efficiency by automating both the work flows at the user work station level and the interactive process of transmitting and executing orders between the Buy-Side institutional investors (e.g., hedge funds, investment advisers, mutual funds and pension funds) and the Sell-Side broker-dealers, and through exchanges (e.g., NYSE, AMEX, Nasdaq and other exchanges), the OTC market, ATSs and ECNs.
Business Model
Our revenue is comprised of subscription and maintenance, product sales and services and transaction revenue, as follows:
Subscription and maintenance consists of contracts that provide for the use of our systems and our messaging channels, together with managed services, with a term of generally one to three years. Additional services, provided under schedules, or addenda to the contracts, are either co-terminus with the original contract or have provisions similar to the original contract. Under the terms of the subscription contracts and addenda, clients are typically invoiced a flat periodic charge after initial installation and acceptance. Subscription and maintenance also includes maintenance contracts for software under separate, renewable maintenance contracts. Software related maintenance contracts are generally for a term of one year. Revenue related to these contracts and addenda is recognized over the term of the contract, addendum, or service period, on a straight-line basis. We include within our subscription and maintenance revenue charges for connectivity to the NYFIX trading community. These include the various costs of connecting clients which include telecommunications, installation and maintenance of routers, network management software, and staff, and other costs related to the management of connectivity. The connectivity charges are recognized as the services are provided.
Product sales and services are primarily comprised of FIX software licenses, equipment sales and professional services fees. This revenue is recognized when the software and equipment have been shipped and accepted by the client and when other contractual obligations, including installation, if applicable, have been satisfied and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured.
Transaction revenue primarily consists of per-share commissions charged to clients who send and receive a match and execution in our NYFIX Millennium ATS and clients to whom we provide execution and smart order routing technology, gateways to access markets and algorithmic trading ability in: (i) their own name, (ii) a third party name, or (iii) our name. Revenue for these services is generally invoiced monthly in arrears or is obtained through the clearing process within three days of the trade date, and is recognized on a trade date basis, in the period in which it is earned. Transaction revenue also includes the net interest spread on our matched book of securities borrowed/loaned.
Cost of revenue includes the following:
·
Data center operating costs, including salaries, related to equipment, infrastructure and software supporting operations and the NYFIX MarketplaceTM;
·
Managed connectivity costs, including telecommunication and other costs incurred on behalf of clients, and costs to maintain the data centers, including depreciation and amortization of assets utilized by the data centers, which are recognized as either a cost of subscription and maintenance or cost of transaction revenue, as appropriate;
·
Amortization expense of acquired intangible assets and capitalized product enhancement costs relating to the applicable revenue category;
·
Developer and quality assurance personnel labor for client and product support of software products;
·
The cost of leased subscription and service bureau equipment, which is depreciated over the estimated useful life of the equipment. When inventory is leased on a subscription basis, the cost of the inventory is relieved and transferred to property and equipment. The depreciation expense related to this equipment is included in cost of subscription and maintenance revenue; and
·
Execution and clearing costs to access various markets and exchanges and to process and settle transactions.
Transitional Costs
Following the $75.0 million investment by Warburg Pincus in October 2006, we began to incur significant transitional rebuilding and remediation expenses, primarily for consultants. As described below, certain of these costs were incurred during the fourth quarter of 2006 and we expect additional amounts in 2007. In addition, as described below, we incurred significant transitional employment costs during 2006 and expect further amounts in 2007.
Adoption of SFAS 123(R) in 2006
On January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123(R)”) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based awards made to employees and directors, including employee stock options and employee stock purchases, based on estimated fair values. Prior to the adoption of SFAS 123(R), we accounted for stock-based awards to employees and directors using the intrinsic value method in accordance with APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (“APB 25”).
Sale of NYFIX Overseas
During the third quarter of 2006, we disposed of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of NYFIX Overseas, a wholly-owned subsidiary which previously comprised our OBMS Division. The transaction closed on August 25, 2006. The initial amount paid by to GL for the purchase of NYFIX Overseas was $9.0 million. A portion of this amount, $1.3 million, was repaid to GL in April in settlement of a working capital adjustment. In addition, transaction related fees and expenses aggregating $0.5 million were paid subsequent to closing.
In connection with the sale, we recorded a gain of $4.0 million.
There is also an earn-out adjustment, under the terms of the Sales Agreement, for which we are eligible for additional earn-out payments based on future revenues of NYFIX Overseas through December 31, 2007. The maximum earn-out payment is $5.1 million, net of additional payments to the management team of NYFIX Overseas.
The disposition of NYFIX Overseas constitutes a discontinued operation and accordingly operating results relative to NYFIX Overseas are presented as a discontinued operation on a historical comparative basis.
SEC Investigation and Related Contingencies
We filed a current report on Form 8-K on February 25, 2005, indicating our belief that the informal investigation related to certain stock option grants initiated by the SEC in October 2004 had become formal. We are cooperating with the SEC with respect to this matter. We believe we are substantially complete with regard to producing all documents responsive to document requests and a subpoena. The SEC staff has taken testimony from current and/or former officers and/or directors, as well as from third parties, including Deloitte & Touche LLP (“Deloitte”), our former independent registered public accounting firm, in this investigation.
We performed an extensive internal review of our historical stock-based compensation awards as well as an overall accounting review. Our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were re-audited by a newly engaged independent registered public accounting firm. The internal review was overseen by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors and a special Subcommittee of the Audit Committee formed in connection with a restructuring of the Board and of management that commenced in September 2005.
As a result of this internal review, in our 2005 10-K, we restated previously reported results by a net amount of $42.1 million. The items adjusted consisted of stock-based compensation, acquisitions and investments, revenue recognition, income taxes and treasury stock. The findings of our internal review of historical stock-based compensation awards included (i) grants to officers and directors which were made outside the terms of the stock option plans then in effect; (ii) modifications of grants to Peter Hansen, the Company’s founder, former Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, where evidence could not be located to demonstrate that the modifications were authorized by the Board or Compensation Committee; (iii) retroactive reinstatement of the employment status of Richard Castillo, the Company’s former Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, after he had discontinued providing employee services and the continued vesting of his outstanding awards, (iv) subsequent changing of vesting terms with retroactive documentation as of an earlier date; (v) grant schedules to the minutes of Board or Compensation Committee meetings which included awards that were not initiated until after the dates of these meetings; (vi) grant schedules to the minutes of Board or Compensation Committee meetings which included awards which were modified after the dates of such meetings to increase the number of options granted or to decrease the exercise price, but which were included on such schedules as if they had been granted in modified form on the dates of the Board or Compensation Committee meetings; (vii) options and warrants exercised by officers and directors with non-recourse notes where evidence could not be located to demonstrate that the issuance of such notes was approved by the Board or Compensation Committee; and (viii) other circumstances indicating the issuance of in-the-money grants. The modifications to Mr. Hansen’s grants noted in (ii) above resulted in the recording of a $25.0 million charge in March based on the incremental intrinsic value on the date assumed to be the modification date.
The restatement for stock-based compensation included in our 2005 10-K relied upon significant legal and other judgments. These judgments included determinations as to the validity of grants, measurement dates, and other matters, including reliance upon delegated authority with respect to awards issued directly by Mr. Hansen and not later ratified by the Board or Compensation Committee. Any and all of these determinations could be challenged. Additionally, new and possibly significant information may also be located which could lead to different determinations that may require different accounting treatment.
In May 2006, we received a grand jury subpoena from the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York. The subpoena sought documents relating to our granting of stock options. With the agreement of the Assistant U.S. Attorney, we are responding to the subpoena by producing the documents we produce to the staff of the Division of Enforcement of the SEC. The U.S. Attorney has also conducted interviews with at least one of our current employees and two of our former employees (one of which is a former officer) and with at least one employee of our former independent registered public accounting firm.
We are a nominal defendant in two separate consolidated shareholder derivative actions, one in the state court of Connecticut and the other in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut. The complaints in these actions assert counts for an accounting of stock options granted to certain of the individual defendants and counts against all individual defendants for violation of Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act, breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, constructive fraud, corporate waste, unjust enrichment, and breach of contract.
In and 2007, we have had communications with the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the United Kingdom HM Revenue & Customs (“Inland Revenue”) relating to historical stock option grants and exercises. These communications involve employment tax returns and the amounts of reported employee compensation and related payroll tax withholdings, as well as deductions on corporate income tax returns. We received, and have produced materials in response to, document requests from the IRS relating to stock option grants and exercises in connection with the IRS examination of our corporate tax returns for the years 2001 and 2004 and of our employment tax returns for the years 2003 through 2005, respectively. Subsequent to the sale of NYFIX Overseas in August 2006, GL forwarded correspondence from the Inland Revenue relating to NYFIX Overseas’ potential liability for payroll tax withholdings on prior option exercises by certain former employees.
We have determined that we have exposure as former management did not properly withhold employee income and related payroll taxes related to historical stock option activity. As a result, we have recorded a liability of $1.0 million related to tax withholdings not made on the exercises of stock options previously classified as Incentive Stock Options (“ISOs”), exposures related to Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (“Section 409A”), and similar exposures related to withholdings and payroll taxes which may be due in the U.K, related to stock option exercises under Pay As You Earn, or PAYE, and National Insurance Contribution provisions (due to our indemnity obligations to GL). In 2006, we remedied the 409A exposure with respect to certain current and former directors and executive officers by increasing exercise prices of affected grants. The remedies that can be taken prior to December 31, 2007, with respect to rank and file employees, relating to 409A exposure are currently being evaluated. Based upon the current information available and the liabilities recognized, we believe the resolution of these tax matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. However, the ongoing discussions with the taxing authorities could result in new information and higher than anticipated exposures. We are continuing to cooperate with the taxing authorities to resolve these matters.
Due to the fact that we are not current with our SEC reporting obligations, we have generally not issued shares to employees and directors in connection with the exercise of stock options from July 2005 to July 2007. In February 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved a policy whereby we will honor awards to former employees who have validly notified us in writing of their intent to exercise. These awards will be honored once the Company is current with its periodic SEC reporting requirements and can settle awards under its registration statements. Certain former employees have notified us in writing of their intent to exercise; however, we have not honored such exercises at this time. We have cash exposure if our stock price drops after employees have notified us in writing of their intent to exercise.
As discussed in more detail in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, under SFAS 123(R), this exposure has resulted in liability classification for these modified awards and a net charge recorded through compensation expense for amounts by which the current fair values for these modified awards exceed their related original grant date fair values.
As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding options covering 1,089,906 shares for which we had been notified of intents to exercise and which were not deemed probable of expiring before the Company could issue shares (“Pending Exercises”). The range of fair market values for our common stock on the dates of these notifications was from $2.90 to $7.35, with a weighted average fair market value for such shares underlying options on the notification dates of $5.99. As discussed in Notes 9 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during the first six months of 2007, we were notified of additional intents to exercise and certain pending options expired or were resolved through exercise. Our potential cash exposure as of December 31, 2006 for declines in our stock price after such notifications was estimated at less than $0.1 million, based on the fair market value of $6.30 at December 31, 2006.
As of June 30, 2007, the remaining Pending Exercises, total 1,030,150 shares. The range of fair market values for our common stock on the dates of the corresponding notifications through June 30, 2007 was from $2.90 to $ 7.47, with a weighted average fair market value for such shares on the notification dates of $5.97. Our potential cash exposure as of June 30, 2007 for declines in our stock price after such notifications was estimated at less than $0.1 million, based on the fair market value of $7.40 at June 30, 2007. This cash exposure could, however, significantly increase if the fair market value of our stock declines once option holders are able to exercise and sell the underlying shares.
At December 31, 2006, there were 130,000 shares underlying awards to six optionees, which had either expired or were considered probable of expiring with an aggregate fair value of $0.5 million. During the six months ended June 30, 2007, we paid $0.4 million to cash settle 114,250 options which had reached their 10-year contractual life and expired. At June 30, 2007, liabilities for modified awards to be cash settled, related to expired options covering 21,375 shares, aggregated $0.1 million. We have additional cash exposure if we cannot settle Pending Exercises with stock prior to their expiration going forward.
During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we incurred costs totaling $12.8 million, $3.1 million and $1.3 million, respectively, relating to the stock option investigation and subpoenas, a grand jury subpoena, related shareholder derivative litigation, related financial restatements and expenses to resolve related matters, together with an earlier SEC inquiry into former management’s accounting for NYFIX Millennium, related class action litigation and related financial restatement. These costs include outside counsels, contract attorneys, forensic accountants, and other consultants and the cost of re-auditing previously issued financial statements following the resignation of our prior independent registered public accounting firm. These costs do not include any portion of time that our employees have dedicated to these matters. Amounts incurred during 2006 included penalties of $0.6 million due to the delinquency in our periodic reporting obligations under a registration rights agreement related to the private placement transaction which closed on July 5, 2006 and $0.4 million of aggregate expense related to modifications to cash settle expiring stock options and to extend the normal 90-day post-termination exercise period. We will likely continue to incur material amounts of expense associated with these matters until they are resolved.
Other than the amount described above for employee-related taxes for stock options and Pending Exercises, we have not recorded any liability with respect to these matters, as we are currently unable to predict the outcomes and reasonably estimate the amounts of loss, if any. With respect to the SEC investigation of stock option grants, the grand jury subpoena, the State Court Consolidated Complaint, and the Federal Court Consolidated Complaint associated with such matters and other related matters, we could be subject to penalties, fines or regulatory sanctions or claims by current and former officers, directors or employees for indemnification of costs or losses they may incur and such amounts, individually or collectively, could have a material impact on our financial condition. In addition, other actions may be brought against us related to the matters described above.
Please see Item 3.