ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements of the Company's and management's expectations, intentions, plans and beliefs, including those contained in or implied by this Item 2, "Properties", and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," are forward-looking statements, as defined in Section 21D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that are dependent on certain events, risks and uncertainties that may be outside of the Company's control. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding proposed capital expenditures, management's plans and objectives for future operations, and future economic performance; information on drilling schedules, expected or planned production or transportation capacity, employment of drilling rigs, completion of pipeline construction, proven oil and gas reserves and discounted future net cash flows therefrom; and the assumptions described in this report underlying such forward-looking statements. Actual results and developments could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements due to a number of factors, including those described in the context of such forward-looking statements and in notes 18 and 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
OIL AND GAS
Colombia
Through Triton Colombia, the Company has varying participation interests in nine licenses in Colombia.
Cusiana and Cupiagua Fields
Contract Terms. In the foothills of the Llanos Basin area in eastern Colombia, Triton Colombia holds a 12% interest in the SDLA, Tauramena and Rio Chitamena contract areas, covering approximately 66,000, 41,400 and 11,600 acres, respectively, where an active appraisal and development program is being carried out in the Cusiana and Cupiagua fields. Triton's partners in these areas are Empresa Colombiana De Petroleos ("Ecopetrol"), the Colombian national oil company, with a 50% interest, BP Exploration Company (Colombia) Limited ("BP"), the operator, with a 19% interest, and TOTAL Exploratie en Produktie Maatschippij B.V. ("TOTAL"), also with a 19% interest. In 1993, Ecopetrol declared the Cusiana and Cupiagua fields to be commercial and exercised its right to acquire a 50% interest. Triton's net revenue interest is approximately 9.6% after governmental royalties. Triton's net revenue is reduced by up to 0.36% pursuant to an agreement with an original co-investor, subject to Triton being reimbursed for a proportionate share of expenditures relating thereto.
The Company and its private partners have secured the right to produce oil and gas from the SDLA and Tauramena contract areas through the years 2010 and 2016, respectively, and from the Rio Chitamena contract area through 2015 or 2019, depending on contract interpretation. In July 1994, Triton Colombia, BP, TOTAL and Ecopetrol entered into an Integral Plan for the Unified Exploitation of the Cusiana Oil Structure in the SDLA, Tauramena and Rio Chitamena Association Contract Areas. Under the plan, the parties have agreed to develop the Cusiana oil structure in a technically efficient and cooperative manner during three consecutive periods of time. During the initial period, petroleum produced from the unified area will be owned by the parties according to their respective undivided interests in each contract area.
Within the first quarter of 2005, an independent determination of the original barrels of oil equivalent ("BOE") of petroleum in place under the unified area and under each association contract will be made, as a result of which a "tract factor" will be calculated for each association contract. Each tract factor will be the amount of original BOEs of petroleum in place under the particular association contract as a percentage of the total original BOEs under the unified area. Each party's unified area interest during the second period (commencing from the expiration of the SDLA association contract in 2010) and during the final period (commencing from the termination of the second association contract to termination) will be the aggregate of that party's interest in each remaining association contract multiplied by the tract factor for each such contract.
Recent Drilling Results. In the Cusiana Field, Triton Colombia and its working interest partners have completed and have in service 16 producing wells and five gas injection wells. The injection wells will recycle to the reservoir most of the gas that is associated with the oil production to increase the oil recoverable over the life of the field. There are currently six wells being drilled as part of 1996 activity. The plan for the year includes the drilling and completion of 16 oil production and gas injection wells, which would bring the year end total to 37 production and gas injection wells. Full field development drilling is proceeding on a schedule which is intended to have sufficient well capacity at all times to meet production capacities of field facilities and export pipelines from the area.
In the Cupiagua Field, Triton Colombia and its working interest partners completed the Cupiagua-4 well in the Barco Formation and the well awaits connection to a pipeline system for early field production beginning in 1996. Tests of the well yielded 11,500 barrels of oil and 43 million cubic feet of gas per day and confirmed the presence of oil and gas in the lower inverted Mirador and Barco formations. The well extended the total oil column in the field to 3,671 feet and no water contact was found. The Cupiagua-5 well, spudded in April, has penetrated the Mirador and Barco reservoirs and the Cupiagua-6 well, spudded in May, has penetrated the Mirador, Barco and Guadalupe reservoirs. The Cupiagua-5 well was the deepest well to date in either the Cusiana Field or the Cupiagua Field. The well has reached a total depth of approximately 18,000 feet and is currently being flow tested. Appraisal and development drilling is proceeding with a three-rig drilling program, which is expected to increase to four rigs by mid-year, and which is expected to result in the completion of at least seven additional wells in 1996.
The Company believes considerable progress has been achieved in reducing the time and expenditures required to drill and complete wells in the Cusiana and Cupiagua fields. Although there can be no assurance, the Company believes that further improvements can be achieved with experience gained in the area. The Company expects that an additional rig will be mobilized as needed in both fields to efficiently develop the oil and gas reserves.
Production Facilities and Pipelines. The four early production units of the Cusiana Field central processing facility have been placed in service and are designed to handle approximately 180,000 barrels of daily production throughput from the Cusiana Field. Construction is under way to increase production from the Cusiana and Cupiagua fields to at least 500,000 barrels per day by the end of 1997. Additional pipeline capacity is required to meet the transportation needs associated with full field development of these fields. To that end, in April 1995, Triton Pipeline Colombia, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, along with Ecopetrol, BP Colombia Pipelines Ltd., Total Pipeline Colombie, S.A., IPL Enterprises (Colombia) Inc. and TCPL International Investments Inc., completed the formation of a company, Oleoducto Central S.A. ("OCENSA"), to own and finance pipeline and port facilities to be constructed and operated for the transport of crude oil from the Cusiana and Cupiagua fields to the port of Covenas. Triton's equity participation in OCENSA is 9.6%. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Funding Alternatives."
This pipeline project consists of a 793-kilometer (495-mile) pipeline system from the Cusiana and Cupiagua fields to the Caribbean port of Covenas. It loops and generally follows the route of the two existing pipelines: the Central Llanos pipeline from El Porvenir to Vasconia and the Oleoducto de Colombia ("ODC") pipeline from Vasconia to Covenas. A portion of the Central Llanos loop already completed and pump station upgrades at El Porvenir and Miraflores were acquired by OCENSA during 1995. Construction of the remainder of the system is currently under way and scheduled to be completed in 1997. Production from the Fields in 1995 was 5.1 million barrels of oil, including Ecopetrol reimbursements. The current plan is to increase production capacity to at least 500,000 barrels of oil per day by the end of 1997.
Other Colombia Areas
Triton owns the rights to six additional licenses in Colombia. In the Middle Magdalena Valley basin and adjacent foothills, Triton owns a 100% interest (before certain royalties and government participation) in the El Pinal contract area, which covers approximately 142,250 acres approximately 330 kilometers (205 miles) north of Bogota. In the southern part of El Pinal, Triton discovered and confirmed the La Liebre Field with two wells (the La Liebre-1 and -2), which were tested at an aggregate of approximately 1,800 barrels of oil per day. In 1995, Ecopetrol approved Triton's application to declare the La Liebre Field commercial, and initial production from the field is expected to begin in 1996.
The Yumeca-1 exploratory well, located in the northern part of El Pial, was drilled and tested in 1995. It was intended that the well test a new play concept in the foothills of the Middle Magdalena Valley. The well encountered hydrocarbon shows at various intervals but was plugged and abandoned after four zones were tested. The well was drilled to a total depth of 13,675 feet and failed to produce on test. Triton intends to drill an additional exploratory well on the Yumeca trend in 1996.
In June 1995, the Company was awarded the Guayabo A and B and Las Amelias Association Contracts covering a contiguous area of approximately 1.8 million acres in Colombia. The area is located approximately 150 kilometers (93 miles) north of Bogota and 140 kilometers (87 miles) northwest of the Cusiana and Cupiagua fields, and is contiguous with the El Pinal contract area to the north. The terms of these association contracts are less favorable than the terms of the Cusiana and Cupiagua association contracts. Triton is conducting environmental studies over the blocks and intends to acquire 175 kilometers (110 miles) of seismic over the Las Amelias block and 100 kilometers (62 miles) of seismic over the Guayabo A block.
In March 1996, the Company executed an agreement with Deminex Colombia Petroleum GmbH ("Deminex") providing Deminex the right to earn a 50% interest in the El Pinal, Guayabo A and B and Las Amelias contract areas. The effectiveness of the agreement is conditioned on the approval by December 31, 1996 of Ecopetrol and the Ministry of Mines and Energy of Colombia. The agreement provides for an initial payment by Deminex of approximately $13.4 million. In addition to costs associated with its 50% interest in the contract areas, Deminex would pay certain direct exploratory costs of the Company up to a maximum of approximately $16.8 million. All payments due prior to the receipt of the requisite approvals will be held in escrow.
In the Upper Magdalena Valley basin, Triton Colombia has 22.5% and 20% interests (before certain royalties), respectively, in the 32,834-acre Tolima-B and 32,240-acre San Luis contract areas, approximately 180 and 130 kilometers (110 and 80 miles), respectively, southwest of Bogota. HOCOL S.A. is operator in both areas. Ecopetrol has granted commerciality of one field in each of the two areas.
Malaysia-Thailand
In April 1994, Triton Thailand became a party to a production sharing contract covering an area located offshore, designated as Block A-18 of the Malaysia-Thailand Joint Development Area. The contract area, which encompasses approximately 731,000 acres, had been the subject of overlapping claims between Malaysia and Thailand. The other parties to the production sharing contract are the Malaysia-Thailand Joint Authority, which has been established by treaty to administer the Joint Development Area, and the Malaysian national oil company. The treaty provides for the development of a Joint Development Area that includes Block A-18. Triton Thailand previously held a concession from Thailand that covered part of the Joint Development Area.
Simultaneously with the execution of the production sharing contract, the parties executed a joint operating agreement governing Block A-18 operations. The operating agreement designated as operator, CTOC, a company owned equally by Triton Thailand and the Malaysian national oil company.
The first phase of Block A-18 operations included a 2D seismic survey covering approximately 5,700 kilometers (3,542 miles), a 3D seismic survey conducted in 1995 and covering approximately 620 square kilometers (239 square miles) over the Cakerawala field, data analysis and the drilling of three exploratory wells.
In August 1995, the first of the three wells, the Cakerawala-1A, was tested at a combined flow rate of 58 MMcf of gas and 945 barrels of condensate and oil per day. The well was drilled in approximately 200 feet of water to a total depth of 7,878 feet. A second well, Suriya-1, was tested at 58 MMcf of gas and 351 barrels of condensate per day. The Suriya-1 well was drilled in approximately 180 feet of water to a total depth of 7,273 feet and is located on a separate structure. The Suriya-1 well is located approximately 11 kilometers (7 miles) east-southeast of the Cakerawala-1A well.
A third well, Cakerawala East-1, was drilled in approximately 180 feet of water to a total depth of 11,808 feet. Cakerawala East-1 tested at approximately 22 MMcf of gas and 138 barrels of condensate per day from the two shallow sequences that constitute the principal producing zones for phase one field development. The well confirmed anticipated fault separations from the structure on which the Cakerawala-1A and Pilong wells (drilled by Exxon in 1979) were drilled, and experienced comparable sand thickness, flow rates and gas-water contact, and lesser CO2 content, than the same sequences in the Cakerawala-1A and Pilong wells. Intermediate sequences were wet and were not tested. The well also confirmed the presence of deeper, overpressure sandstone sequences, but the deeper zones tested wet or inconclusively due to mechanical difficulties. The deeper zones remain an exploratory prospect for future drilling.
CTOC's highest priority in 1996 is expected to be the further delineation and development of the main Cakerawala field in anticipation of negotiation of an initial gas sales contract. The Company believes that it will be necessary to convince a buyer of the field's capacity to produce at least 300 MMcf per day for at least 6,000 days in order to negotiate any acceptable contract. To that end, CTOC expects to drill up to four appraisal wells to delineate the Cakerawala Field in 1996. In addition, CTOC plans to drill the last two wells of the initial five-well exploration program on two structures adjacent to the gas-field discoveries.
The nature and extent of the second phase of development and appraisal of the area will depend on the parties' assessment of the results of phase-one activities.
Argentina
Through the Company's subsidiaries, Triton Argentina, Inc. and Triton Resources Argentina, Inc. (collectively, "Triton Argentina"), the Company holds a 100% working interest in the approximately 50,000 acre-Sierra Azul Sur concession in the oil and gas producing Neuquen Basin in western Argentina.
Triton Argentina also holds working interests in the Malargue Sur, Cerro Doa Juana and Loma Cortaderal concessions in Argentina. In 1995, the Company drilled two exploratory wells in the Malarge Sur Block, the El Fortin X-1 and the Cerro Negro X-1. The El Fortin X-1 well was drilled to a total depth of 7,485 feet and, although the well exhibited oil and gas shows, three tests failed to produce oil to surface and the well was plugged and abandoned. The Cerro Negro X-1 well was drilled to 12,153 feet and plugged and abandoned after five tests failed to produce economic quantities of oil. A third well, Cerro Chimango X-1, was drilled to a total depth of 6,067 feet and plugged and abandoned in January 1996. Triton expects to relinquish its interest in the Malarge Sur concession in March 1996.
Guatemala
Through the Company's subsidiary, Triton Guatemala S.A. ("Triton Guatemala"), the Company has acquired an interest in two contiguous blocks in Guatemala. During 1995, Triton Guatemala acquired 270 kilometers (169 miles) of seismic data. The blocks lie on the border with Mexico in an extension of the Chiapas fold belt province. Triton expects to test the extension of the Chiapas fold belt trend into Guatemala.
Ecuador
Through the Company's subsidiary, Triton Ecuador, Inc. LLC ("Triton Ecuador"), the Company holds an interest in Block 19 located in the Ecuadorian foothills in the Oriente Basin. During 1995, Triton farmed out a 30% interest in the area to Vintage Petroleum Ecuador, Inc. and a 15% interest to Ranger Oil Limited, in each case subject to government approval. The partners' work program commitments for Block 19 consist of the acquisition of 400 kilometers of new seismic data and the drilling of two exploratory wells during a four-year exploration period. An environmental impact study was completed in 1995 and a 420 kilometer (263 mile)-seismic acquisition program is expected to be completed in 1996. Exploratory drilling is planned to begin in 1997.
China
The Company's subsidiary, Triton China, Inc. LLC ("Triton China"), signed a production sharing contract with the China National Offshore Oil Company in February 1995 giving the Company the right to explore and develop Contract Area 16/22 located approximately 175 kilometers (110 miles) offshore from Hong Kong in water depths ranging from 300 to 650 feet. The 791,000-acre block is in the Huizhou Sub-basin of the Pearl River Mouth Basin. The block has a primary three year exploration term with a commitment of reprocessing 500 kilometers (310 miles) of existing seismic and the drilling of an exploratory well for a total expenditure of not less than $7.5 million. In April 1995, the Company was awarded the adjacent 1.9 million acre block, Contract Area 16/01, as a Joint Study Area. Seismic reprocessing on both blocks, of an aggregate of approximately 4,000 kilometers (2,500 miles), was completed in 1995 and the Company expects to drill its first exploratory well in Contract Area 16/22 in 1996.
Italy
The Company's subsidiary, Triton Mediterranean Oil & Gas N.V. ("Triton Mediterranean"), has a 40% interest in the DR71 and DR72 licenses operated by Enterprise Oil, plc, in the Adriatic Sea offshore Italy. One exploratory well is planned for 1996. Triton has applied for four new licenses onshore in the southern Apennine Mountains and one new license offshore. In 1995, the Monte Caruso license, in which Triton Mediterranean held a 10.91% interest, was relinquished.
France
In August 1995, the Company sold its wholly owned subsidiary, Triton France, to Coparex International, a French oil and gas company. The Company's assets in France primarily consisted of the Villeperdue field in which Triton France had a 50% interest.
Crusader
Oil and gas activities in Australia are conducted through the Company's 49.9% owned affiliate, Crusader, whose shares are publicly traded in Australia. Crusader has an interest in the Cooper Basin Gas and Liquids Unit of South Australia. Within the Gippsland and Otway Basins of Victoria, Crusader has interests in two offshore and one onshore exploration licenses, respectively. Crusader has an approximate 48.9% equity interest in Australian Hydrocarbons Limited ("AHY"), a publicly traded Australian company. Two Crusader directors and one alternate Crusader director are members of the three-member AHY Board of Directors and Crusader consolidates AHY in its financial and reserve disclosures. AHY owns various interests in oil and gas exploration projects in Australia including the South West Queensland Gas Unit.
In 1995, Crusader sold substantially all of its interests in oil and gas exploration, production and processing in Canada and Argentina.
Indonesia
Triton Indonesia is the operator of a secondary recovery/rehabilitation project on the southeastern portion of the island of Sumatra pursuant to a contract that expires in October 1996. In 1995, Triton Indonesia acquired the 6% interest in this project owned by New Zealand Petroleum, through its wholly owned subsidiary Triton Oil (N.Z.) Limited, and entered into a definitive agreement to sell its entire interest in this project, the consummation of which is subject to certain conditions.
United States
During the fiscal year ended May 31, 1994, the Company sold substantially all of its working interests in oil and gas reserves in the United States, retaining primarily royalty and mineral interests. In March 1996, the Company entered into an agreement providing for the sale of substantially all of its royalty and mineral interests, the consummation of which is subject to customary conditions. The net proceeds from the sale, which will be made effective as of January 1, 1996, are expected to be approximately $23.8 million and are expected to result in a gain of approximately $4 million.
RESERVES
The following tables set forth the estimated oil and gas reserves of the Company and the estimated discounted future net cash flows before income taxes at December 31, 1995. The first table is a summary of separate reports of estimates of the Company's net proved reserves, estimated by the independent petroleum engineers, DeGolyer and MacNaughton, with respect to all proved reserves in the Cusiana and Cupiagua fields in Colombia, and by the Company's own petroleum engineers with respect to all other reserves. This table sets forth the estimated net quantities of proved developed and undeveloped oil and gas reserves and total proved oil and gas reserves owned by the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries in Colombia, Indonesia and the United States and its proportionate interest in reserves owned in Australia by Crusader. The second table sets forth, for the net quantities so reported, the future net cash flows (by reserve categories and country of location) discounted to present value at an annual rate of 10%. The discounted future net cash flows were calculated in accordance with current Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") guidelines concerning the use of constant oil and gas prices and operating costs in reserve evaluations. Future income tax expenses have not been taken into account in estimating the future net cash flows. At December 31, 1995, the Company had no proved developed or proved undeveloped reserves in Malaysia-Thailand, Argentina, Guatemala, Ecuador, Italy or China. See note 25 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The estimated reserves and future net cash flows set forth in the tables below include information attributable to the Company's 49.9% ownership interest in Crusader (which includes the minority interests in Crusader's consolidated subsidiaries). Oil reserves data include natural gas liquids and condensate.
Net Proved Reserves at December 31, 1995:
Future net cash flows before income taxes discounted at 10% per annum at December 31, 1995 (in thousands of dollars):
___________________ (1) Includes liquids to be recovered from Ecopetrol as reimbursement for precommerciality expenditures. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
Future net cash flows from reserves at December 31, 1995, were calculated on the basis of prices in effect on that date. The prices used by country in this calculation were:
Revenue and costs associated with the Australian reserves are reported in US dollar equivalents based on an exchange value of Australian $1 equivalent to US$0.7428. The Colombian and Indonesian reserves are evaluated in United States dollars.
The foregoing estimated pretax discounted future net cash flow figures relate only to the reserves tabulated above. The estimates were prepared without consideration of income taxes and indirect costs such as interest and administrative expenses (except administrative expenses billed by the operator), and are not to be construed as representative of the fair market values of the properties to which they relate.
Reserve estimates are approximate and may be expected to change as additional information becomes available. Furthermore, estimates of oil and gas reserves, of necessity, are projections based on engineering data, and there are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of such data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact way, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the reserves set forth herein will ultimately be produced nor can there be assurance that the proved undeveloped reserves will be developed within the periods anticipated. The Company emphasizes with respect to the estimates prepared by independent petroleum engineers, as well as those estimates prepared by the Company's engineers, that the discounted future net cash flows should not be construed as representative of the fair market value of the proved oil and gas properties belonging to the Company, since discounted future net cash flows are based upon projected cash flows that provide for neither changes in oil and gas prices nor for escalation of expenses and capital costs. The meaningfulness of such estimates is highly dependent upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based. See note 25 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
No estimates of total proved net oil or gas reserves have been filed by the Company with, or included in any report to, any United States authority or agency pertaining to the Company's individual reserves since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year.
ACREAGE
The following table shows the total gross and net developed and undeveloped oil and gas acreage (including acreage attributable to mineral, royalty and overriding royalty interests) held by Triton at December 31, 1995, including acreage attributable to the Company's 49.9% ownership interest in Crusader (which includes the minority interests in Crusader's consolidated subsidiaries). "Gross" refers to the total number of acres in an area in which the Company holds any interest without adjustment to reflect the actual percentage interest held therein by the Company. "Net" refers to the gross acreage as adjusted for working interests owned by parties other than the Company.
"Developed" acreage is acreage spaced or assignable to productive wells. "Undeveloped" acreage is acreage on which wells have not been drilled or completed to a point that would permit the production of commercial quantities of oil and gas regardless of whether such acreage contains proved reserves.
____________________ (1) Triton's interests in certain of this acreage may expire if not developed at various times in the future pursuant to the terms and provisions of the leases, licenses, concessions, contracts, permits or other agreements under which it was acquired.
PRODUCTIVE WELLS AND DRILLING ACTIVITY
In this section, "gross" wells refers to the total number of wells drilled in an area in which the Company holds any interest without adjustment to reflect the actual ownership interest held. "Net" refers to the gross number of wells drilled adjusted for working interests owned by parties other than the Company. Well interests include wells attributable to the Company's 49.9% ownership interest in Crusader (which includes the minority interests in Crusader's consolidated subsidiaries).
The following table summarizes the approximate total gross and net working interests held by Triton in productive wells at December 31, 1995:
The following tables set forth the results of the oil and gas well drilling activity on a gross basis for wells in which the Company held an interest for the year ended December 31, 1995, the seven months ended December 31, 1994, and for the years ended May 31, 1994 and 1993.
____________________ (1) In 1995, Crusader sold its interests in Argentina and Canada.
The following tables set forth the results of drilling activity on a net basis for wells in which the Company held an interest for the year ended December 31, 1995, the seven months ended December 31, 1994 and for the years ended May 31, 1994 and 1993 (those wells acquired or disposed of since May 31, 1992 are reflected in the following tables only since or up to the effective dates of their respective acquisitions or sales, as the case may be):
____________________ (1) A productive well is producing or capable of producing oil and/or gas in commercial quantities. Multiple completions have been counted as one well. Any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion is classified as an oil well. (2) Adjusted to reflect the national oil company participation at commerciality for the Cusiana and Cupiagua fields. (3) Not adjusted to reflect any minority interests. (4) Adjusted to reflect the Company's 49.9% interest in Crusader.
OTHER
The Company owns or has interests in oil and gas production facilities relating to its oil and gas production operations throughout the world. In addition, the Company leases or owns office space and other properties for its various operations in various parts of the world.
For additional information on the Company's leases, including its office leases, see note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
ITEM 3.