Introduction
Semantic Role Labeling (SRL) has emerged as an important task in Natural Language Processing (NLP) due to its applicability in information extraction, question answering, and other NLP tasks. SRL is the problem of finding predicate-argument structure in a sentence, as illustrated below:
INLINEFORM0
Here, the predicate WRITE has two arguments: `Mike' as A0 or the writer, and `a book' as A1 or the thing written. The labels A0 and A1 correspond to the PropBank annotations BIBREF0 .
As the need for SRL arises in different domains and languages, the existing manually annotated corpora become insufficient to build supervised systems. This has motivated work on unsupervised SRL BIBREF1 , BIBREF2 , BIBREF3 . Previous work has indicated that unsupervised systems could benefit from the word alignment information in parallel text in two or more languages BIBREF4 , BIBREF5 , BIBREF6 . For example, consider the German translation of sentence INLINEFORM0 :
INLINEFORM0
If sentences INLINEFORM0 and INLINEFORM1 have the word alignments: Mike-Mike, written-geschrieben, and book-Buch, the system might be able to predict A1 for Buch, even if there is insufficient information in the monolingual German data to learn this assignment. Thus, in languages where the resources are sparse or not good enough, or the distributions are not informative, SRL systems could be made more accurate by using parallel data with resource rich or more amenable languages.
In this paper, we propose a joint Bayesian model for unsupervised semantic role induction in multiple languages. The model consists of individual Bayesian models for each language BIBREF3 , and crosslingual latent variables to incorporate soft role agreement between aligned constituents. This latent variable approach has been demonstrated to increase the performance in a multilingual unsupervised part-of-speech tagging model based on HMMs BIBREF4 . We investigate the application of this approach to unsupervised SRL, presenting the performance improvements obtained in different settings involving labeled and unlabeled data, and analyzing the annotation effort required to obtain similar gains using labeled data.
We begin by briefly describing the unsupervised SRL pipeline and the monolingual semantic role induction model we use, and then describe our multilingual model.
Unsupervised SRL Pipeline
As established in previous work BIBREF7 , BIBREF8 , we use a standard unsupervised SRL setup, consisting of the following steps:
The task we model, unsupervised semantic role induction, is the step 4 of this pipeline.
Monolingual Model
We use the Bayesian model of garg2012unsupervised as our base monolingual model. The semantic roles are predicate-specific. To model the role ordering and repetition preferences, the role inventory for each predicate is divided into Primary and Secondary roles as follows:
For example, the complete role sequence in a frame could be: INLINEFORM0 INLINEFORM1 , INLINEFORM2 , INLINEFORM3 , INLINEFORM4 , INLINEFORM5 , INLINEFORM6 , INLINEFORM7 , INLINEFORM8 INLINEFORM9 . The ordering is defined as the sequence of PRs, INLINEFORM10 INLINEFORM11 , INLINEFORM12 , INLINEFORM13 , INLINEFORM14 , INLINEFORM15 INLINEFORM16 . Each pair of consecutive PRs in an ordering is called an interval. Thus, INLINEFORM17 is an interval that contains two SRs, INLINEFORM18 and INLINEFORM19 . An interval could also be empty, for instance INLINEFORM20 contains no SRs. When we evaluate, these roles get mapped to gold roles. For instance, the PR INLINEFORM21 could get mapped to a core role like INLINEFORM22 , INLINEFORM23 , etc. or to a modifier role like INLINEFORM24 , INLINEFORM25 , etc. garg2012unsupervised reported that, in practice, PRs mostly get mapped to core roles and SRs to modifier roles, which conforms to the linguistic motivations for this distinction.
Figure FIGREF16 illustrates two copies of the monolingual model, on either side of the crosslingual latent variables. The generative process is as follows:
All the multinomial and binomial distributions have symmetric Dirichlet and beta priors respectively. Figure FIGREF7 gives the probability equations for the monolingual model. This formulation models the global role ordering and repetition preferences using PRs, and limited context for SRs using intervals. Ordering and repetition information was found to be helpful in supervised SRL as well BIBREF9 , BIBREF8 , BIBREF10 . More details, including the motivations behind this model, are in BIBREF3 .
Multilingual Model
The multilingual model uses word alignments between sentences in a parallel corpus to exploit role correspondences across languages. We make copies of the monolingual model for each language and add additional crosslingual latent variables (CLVs) to couple the monolingual models, capturing crosslingual semantic role patterns. Concretely, when training on parallel sentences, whenever the head words of the arguments are aligned, we add a CLV as a parent of the two corresponding role variables. Figure FIGREF16 illustrates this model. The generative process, as explained below, remains the same as the monolingual model for the most part, with the exception of aligned roles which are now generated by both the monolingual process as well as the CLV.
Every predicate-tuple has its own inventory of CLVs specific to that tuple. Each CLV INLINEFORM0 is a multi-valued variable where each value defines a distribution over role labels for each language (denoted by INLINEFORM1 above). These distributions over labels are trained to be peaky, so that each value INLINEFORM2 for a CLV represents a correlation between the labels that INLINEFORM3 predicts in the two languages. For example, a value INLINEFORM4 for the CLV INLINEFORM5 might give high probabilities to INLINEFORM6 and INLINEFORM7 in language 1, and to INLINEFORM8 in language 2. If INLINEFORM9 is the only value for INLINEFORM10 that gives high probability to INLINEFORM11 in language 1, and the monolingual model in language 1 decides to assign INLINEFORM12 to the role for INLINEFORM13 , then INLINEFORM14 will predict INLINEFORM15 in language 2, with high probability. We generate the CLVs via a Chinese Restaurant Process BIBREF11 , a non-parametric Bayesian model, which allows us to induce the number of CLVs for every predicate-tuple from the data. We continue to train on the non-parallel sentences using the respective monolingual models.
The multilingual model is deficient, since the aligned roles are being generated twice. Ideally, we would like to add the CLV as additional conditioning variables in the monolingual models. The new joint probability can be written as equation UID11 (Figure FIGREF7 ), which can be further decomposed following the decomposition of the monolingual model in Figure FIGREF7 . However, having this additional conditioning variable breaks the Dirichlet-multinomial conjugacy, which makes it intractable to marginalize out the parameters during inference. Hence, we use an approximation where we treat each of the aligned roles as being generated twice, once by the monolingual model and once by the corresponding CLV (equation ).
This is the first work to incorporate the coupling of aligned arguments directly in a Bayesian SRL model. This makes it easier to see how to extend this model in a principled way to incorporate additional sources of information. First, the model scales gracefully to more than two languages. If there are a total of INLINEFORM0 languages, and there is an aligned argument in INLINEFORM1 of them, the multilingual latent variable is connected to only those INLINEFORM2 aligned arguments.
Second, having one joint Bayesian model allows us to use the same model in various semi-supervised learning settings, just by fixing the annotated variables during training. Section SECREF29 evaluates a setting where we have some labeled data in one language (called source), while no labeled data in the second language (called target). Note that this is different from a classic annotation projection setting (e.g. BIBREF12 ), where the role labels are mapped from source constituents to aligned target constituents.
Inference and Training
The inference problem consists of predicting the role labels and CLVs (the hidden variables) given the predicate, its voice, and syntactic features of all the identified arguments (the visible variables). We use a collapsed Gibbs-sampling based approach to generate samples for the hidden variables (model parameters are integrated out). The sample counts and the priors are then used to calculate the MAP estimate of the model parameters.
For the monolingual model, the role at a given position is sampled as:
DISPLAYFORM0
where the subscript INLINEFORM0 refers to all the variables except at position INLINEFORM1 , INLINEFORM2 refers to the variables in all the training instances except the current one, and INLINEFORM3 refers to all the model parameters. The above integral has a closed form solution due to Dirichlet-multinomial conjugacy.
For sampling roles in the multilingual model, we also need to consider the probabilities of roles being generated by the CLVs:
DISPLAYFORM0
For sampling CLVs, we need to consider three factors: two corresponding to probabilities of generating the aligned roles, and the third one corresponding to selecting the CLV according to CRP.
DISPLAYFORM0
where the aligned roles INLINEFORM0 and INLINEFORM1 are connected to INLINEFORM2 , and INLINEFORM3 refers to all the variables except INLINEFORM4 , INLINEFORM5 , and INLINEFORM6 .
We use the trained parameters to parse the monolingual data using the monolingual model. The crosslingual parameters are ignored even if they were used during training. Thus, the information coming from the CLVs acts as a regularizer for the monolingual models.
Evaluation
Following the setting of titovcrosslingual, we evaluate only on the arguments that were correctly identified, as the incorrectly identified arguments do not have any gold semantic labels. Evaluation is done using the metric proposed by lang2011unsupervised, which has 3 components: (i) Purity (PU) measures how well an induced cluster corresponds to a single gold role, (ii) Collocation (CO) measures how well a gold role corresponds to a single induced cluster, and (iii) F1 is the harmonic mean of PU and CO. For each predicate, let INLINEFORM0 denote the total number of argument instances, INLINEFORM1 the instances in the induced cluster INLINEFORM2 , and INLINEFORM3 the instances having label INLINEFORM4 in gold annotations. INLINEFORM5 , INLINEFORM6 , and INLINEFORM7 . The score for each predicate is weighted by the number of its argument instances, and a weighted average is computed over all the predicates.
Baseline
We use the same baseline as used by lang2011unsupervised which has been shown to be difficult to outperform. This baseline assigns a semantic role to a constituent based on its syntactic function, i.e. the dependency relation to its head. If there is a total of INLINEFORM0 clusters, INLINEFORM1 most frequent syntactic functions get a cluster each, and the rest are assigned to the INLINEFORM2 th cluster.
Closest Previous Work
This work is closely related to the cross-lingual unsupervised SRL work of titovcrosslingual. Their model has separate monolingual models for each language and an extra penalty term which tries to maximize INLINEFORM0 and INLINEFORM1 i.e. for all the aligned arguments with role label INLINEFORM2 in language 1, it tries to find a role label INLINEFORM3 in language 2 such that the given proportion is maximized and vice verse. However, there is no efficient way to optimize the objective with this penalty term and the authors used an inference method similar to annotation projection. Further, the method does not scale naturally to more than two languages. Their algorithm first does monolingual inference in one language ignoring the penalty and then does the inference in the second language taking into account the penalty term. In contrast, our model adds the latent variables as a part of the model itself, and not an external penalty, which enables us to use the standard Bayesian learning methods such as sampling.
The monolingual model we use BIBREF3 also has two main advantages over titovcrosslingual. First, the former incorporates a global role ordering probability that is missing in the latter. Secondly, the latter defines argument-keys as a tuple of four syntactic features and all the arguments having the same argument-keys are assigned the same role. This kind of hard clustering is avoided in the former model where two constituents having the same set of features might get assigned different roles if they appear in different contexts.
Data
Following titovcrosslingual, we run our experiments on the English (EN) and German (DE) sections of the CoNLL 2009 corpus BIBREF13 , and EN-DE section of the Europarl corpus BIBREF14 . We get about 40k EN and 36k DE sentences from the CoNLL 2009 training set, and about 1.5M parallel EN-DE sentences from Europarl. For appropriate comparison, we keep the same setting as in BIBREF6 for automatic parses and argument identification, which we briefly describe here. The EN sentences are parsed syntactically using MaltParser BIBREF15 and DE using LTH parser BIBREF16 . All the non-auxiliary verbs are selected as predicates. In CoNLL data, this gives us about 3k EN and 500 DE predicates. The total number of predicate instances are 3.4M in EN (89k CoNLL + 3.3M Europarl) and 2.62M in DE (17k CoNLL + 2.6M Europarl). The arguments for EN are identified using the heuristics proposed by lang2011unsupervised. However, we get an F1 score of 85.1% for argument identification on CoNLL 2009 EN data as opposed to 80.7% reported by titovcrosslingual. This could be due to implementation differences, which unfortunately makes our EN results incomparable. For DE, the arguments are identified using the LTH system BIBREF16 , which gives an F1 score of 86.5% on the CoNLL 2009 DE data. The word alignments for the EN-DE parallel Europarl corpus are computed using GIZA++ BIBREF17 . For high-precision, only the intersecting alignments in the two directions are kept. We define two semantic arguments as aligned if their head-words are aligned. In total we get 9.3M arguments for EN (240k CoNLL + 9.1M Europarl) and 4.43M for DE (32k CoNLL + 4.4M Europarl). Out of these, 0.76M arguments are aligned.
Main Results
Since the CoNLL annotations have 21 semantic roles in total, we use 21 roles in our model as well as the baseline. Following garg2012unsupervised, we set the number of PRs to 2 (excluding INLINEFORM0 , INLINEFORM1 and INLINEFORM2 ), and SRs to 21-2=19. Table TABREF27 shows the results.
In the first setting (Line 1), we train and test the monolingual model on the CoNLL data. We observe significant improvements in F1 score over the Baseline (Line 0) in both languages. Using the CoNLL 2009 dataset alone, titovcrosslingual report an F1 score of 80.9% (PU=86.8%, CO=75.7%) for German. Thus, our monolingual model outperforms their monolingual model in German. For English, they report an F1 score of 83.6% (PU=87.5%, CO=80.1%), but note that our English results are not directly comparable to theirs due to differences argument identification, as discussed in section SECREF25 . As their argument identification score is lower, perhaps their system is discarding “difficult” arguments which leads to a higher clustering score.
In the second setting (Line 2), we use the additional monolingual Europarl (EP) data for training. We get equivalent results in English and a significant improvement in German compared to our previous setting (Line 1). The German dataset in CoNLL is quite small and benefits from the additional EP training data. In contrast, the English model is already quite good due to a relatively big dataset from CoNLL, and good accuracy syntactic parsers. Unfortunately, titovcrosslingual do not report results with this setting.
The third setting (Line 3) gives the results of our multilingual model, which adds the word alignments in the EP data. Comparing with Line 2, we get non-significant improvements in both languages. titovcrosslingual obtain an F1 score of 82.7% (PU=85.0%, CO=80.6%) for German, and 83.7% (PU=86.8%, CO=80.7%) for English. Thus, for German, our multilingual Bayesian model is able to capture the cross-lingual patterns at least as well as the external penalty term in BIBREF6 . We cannot compare the English results unfortunately due to differences in argument identification.
We also compared monolingual and bilingual training data using a setting that emulates the standard supervised setup of separate training and test data sets. We train only on the EP dataset and test on the CoNLL dataset. Lines 4 and 5 of Table TABREF27 give the results. The multilingual model obtains small improvements in both languages, which confirms the results from the standard unsupervised setup, comparing lines 2 to 3.
These results indicate that little information can be learned about semantic roles from this parallel data setup. One possible explanation for this result is that the setup itself is inadequate. Given the definition of aligned arguments, only 8% of English arguments and 17% of German arguments are aligned. This plus our experiments suggest that improving the alignment model is a necessary step to making effective use of parallel data in multilingual SRI, for example by joint modeling with SRI. We leave this exploration to future work.
Multilingual Training with Labeled Data for One Language
Another motivation for jointly modeling SRL in multiple languages is the transfer of information from a resource rich language to a resource poor language. We evaluated our model in a very general annotation transfer scenario, where we have a small labeled dataset for one language (source), and a large parallel unlabeled dataset for the source and another (target) language. We investigate whether this setting improves the parameter estimates for the target language. To this end, we clamp the role annotations of the source language in the CoNLL dataset using a predefined mapping, and do not sample them during training. This data gives us good parameters for the source language, which are used to sample the roles of the source language in the unlabeled Europarl data. The CLVs aim to capture this improvement and thereby improve sampling and parameter estimates for the target language. Table TABREF28 shows the results of this experiment. We obtain small improvements in the target languages. As in the unsupervised setting, the small percentage of aligned roles probably limits the impact of the cross-lingual information.
Labeled Data in Monolingual Model
We explored the improvement in the monolingual model in a semi-supervised setting. To this end, we randomly selected INLINEFORM0 of the sentences in the CoNLL dataset as “supervised sentences” and the rest INLINEFORM1 were kept unsupervised. Next, we clamped the role labels of the supervised sentences using the predefined mapping from Section SECREF29 . Sampling was done on the unsupervised sentences as usual. We then measured the clustering performance using the trained parameters.
To access the contribution of partial supervision better, we constructed a “supervised baseline” as follows. For predicates seen in the supervised sentences, a MAP estimate of the parameters was calculated using the predefined mapping. For the unseen predicates, the standard baseline was used.
Figures FIGREF33 and FIGREF33 show the performance variation with INLINEFORM0 . We make the following observations:
[leftmargin=*]
In both languages, at around INLINEFORM0 , the supervised baseline starts outperforming the semi-supervised model, which suggests that manually labeling about 10% of the sentences is a good enough alternative to our training procedure. Note that 10% amounts to about 3.6k sentences in German and 4k in English. We noticed that the proportion of seen predicates increases dramatically as we increase the proportion of supervised sentences. At 10% supervised sentences, the model has already seen 63% of predicates in German and 44% in English. This explains to some extent why only 10% labeled sentences are enough.
For German, it takes about 3.5% or 1260 supervised sentences to have the same performance increase as 1.5M unlabeled sentences (Line 1 to Line 2 in Table TABREF27 ). Adding about 180 more supervised sentences also covers the benefit obtained by alignments in the multilingual model (Line 2 to Line 3 in Table TABREF27 ). There is no noticeable performance difference in English.
We also evaluated the performance variation on a completely unseen CoNLL test set. Since the test set is very small compared to the training set, the clustering evaluation is not as reliable. Nonetheless, we broadly obtained the same pattern.
Related Work
As discussed in section SECREF24 , our work is closely related to the crosslingual unsupervised SRL work of titovcrosslingual. The idea of using superlingual latent variables to capture cross-lingual information was proposed for POS tagging by naseem2009multilingual, which we use here for SRL. In a semi-supervised setting, pado2009cross used a graph based approach to transfer semantic role annotations from English to German. furstenau2009graph used a graph alignment method to measure the semantic and syntactic similarity between dependency tree arguments of known and unknown verbs.
For monolingual unsupervised SRL, swier2004unsupervised presented the first work on a domain-general corpus, the British National Corpus, using 54 verbs taken from VerbNet. garg2012unsupervised proposed a Bayesian model for this problem that we use here. titov2012bayesian also proposed a closely related Bayesian model. grenager2006unsupervised proposed a generative model but their parameter space consisted of all possible linkings of syntactic constituents and semantic roles, which made unsupervised learning difficult and a separate language-specific rule based method had to be used to constrain this space. Other proposed models include an iterative split-merge algorithm BIBREF18 and a graph-partitioning based approach BIBREF1 . marquez2008semantic provide a good overview of the supervised SRL systems.
Conclusions
We propose a Bayesian model of semantic role induction (SRI) that uses crosslingual latent variables to capture role alignments in parallel corpora. The crosslingual latent variables capture correlations between roles in different languages, and regularize the parameter estimates of the monolingual models. Because this is a joint Bayesian model of multilingual SRI, we can apply the same model to a variety of training scenarios just by changing the inference procedure appropriately. We evaluate monolingual SRI with a large unlabeled dataset, bilingual SRI with a parallel corpus, bilingual SRI with annotations available for the source language, and monolingual SRI with a small labeled dataset. Increasing the amount of monolingual unlabeled data significantly improves SRI in German but not in English. Adding word alignments in parallel sentences results in small, non significant improvements, even if there is some labeled data available in the source language. This difficulty in showing the usefulness of parallel corpora for SRI may be due to the current assumptions about role alignments, which mean that only a small percentage of roles are aligned. Further analyses reveals that annotating small amounts of data can easily outperform the performance gains obtained by adding large unlabeled dataset as well as adding parallel corpora.
Future work includes training on different language pairs, on more than two languages, and with more inclusive models of role alignment.
Acknowledgments
This work was funded by the Swiss NSF grant 200021_125137 and EC FP7 grant PARLANCE.