Introduction
The art of argumentation has been studied since the early work of Aristotle, dating back to the 4th century BC BIBREF0 . It has been exhaustively examined from different perspectives, such as philosophy, psychology, communication studies, cognitive science, formal and informal logic, linguistics, computer science, educational research, and many others. In a recent and critically well-acclaimed study, Mercier.Sperber.2011 even claim that argumentation is what drives humans to perform reasoning. From the pragmatic perspective, argumentation can be seen as a verbal activity oriented towards the realization of a goal BIBREF1 or more in detail as a verbal, social, and rational activity aimed at convincing a reasonable critic of the acceptability of a standpoint by putting forward a constellation of one or more propositions to justify this standpoint BIBREF2 .
Analyzing argumentation from the computational linguistics point of view has very recently led to a new field called argumentation mining BIBREF3 . Despite the lack of an exact definition, researchers within this field usually focus on analyzing discourse on the pragmatics level and applying a certain argumentation theory to model and analyze textual data at hand.
Our motivation for argumentation mining stems from a practical information seeking perspective from the user-generated content on the Web. For example, when users search for information in user-generated Web content to facilitate their personal decision making related to controversial topics, they lack tools to overcome the current information overload. One particular use-case example dealing with a forum post discussing private versus public schools is shown in Figure FIGREF4 . Here, the lengthy text on the left-hand side is transformed into an argument gist on the right-hand side by (i) analyzing argument components and (ii) summarizing their content. Figure FIGREF5 shows another use-case example, in which users search for reasons that underpin certain standpoint in a given controversy (which is homeschooling in this case). In general, the output of automatic argument analysis performed on the large scale in Web data can provide users with analyzed arguments to a given topic of interest, find the evidence for the given controversial standpoint, or help to reveal flaws in argumentation of others.
Satisfying the above-mentioned information needs cannot be directly tackled by current methods for, e.g., opinion mining, questions answering, or summarization and requires novel approaches within the argumentation mining field. Although user-generated Web content has already been considered in argumentation mining, many limitations and research gaps can be identified in the existing works. First, the scope of the current approaches is restricted to a particular domain or register, e.g., hotel reviews BIBREF5 , Tweets related to local riot events BIBREF6 , student essays BIBREF7 , airline passenger rights and consumer protection BIBREF8 , or renewable energy sources BIBREF9 . Second, not all the related works are tightly connected to argumentation theories, resulting into a gap between the substantial research in argumentation itself and its adaptation in NLP applications. Third, as an emerging research area, argumentation mining still suffers from a lack of labeled corpora, which is crucial for designing, training, and evaluating the algorithms. Although some works have dealt with creating new data sets, the reliability (in terms of inter-annotator agreement) of the annotated resources is often unknown BIBREF10 , BIBREF11 , BIBREF12 , BIBREF13 , BIBREF14 .
Annotating and automatically analyzing arguments in unconstrained user-generated Web discourse represent challenging tasks. So far, the research in argumentation mining “has been conducted on domains like news articles, parliamentary records and legal documents, where the documents contain well-formed explicit arguments, i.e., propositions with supporting reasons and evidence present in the text” BIBREF8 . [p. 50]Boltuzic.Snajder.2014 point out that “unlike in debates or other more formal argumentation sources, the arguments provided by the users, if any, are less formal, ambiguous, vague, implicit, or often simply poorly worded.” Another challenge stems from the different nature of argumentation theories and computational linguistics. Whereas computational linguistics is mainly descriptive, the empirical research that is carried out in argumentation theories does not constitute a test of the theoretical model that is favored, because the model of argumentation is a normative instrument for assessing the argumentation BIBREF15 . So far, no fully fledged descriptive argumentation theory based on empirical research has been developed, thus feasibility of adapting argumentation models to the Web discourse represents an open issue.
These challenges can be formulated into the following research questions:
In this article, we push the boundaries of the argumentation mining field by focusing on several novel aspects. We tackle the above-mentioned research questions as well as the previously discussed challenges and issues. First, we target user-generated Web discourse from several domains across various registers, to examine how argumentation is communicated in different contexts. Second, we bridge the gap between argumentation theories and argumentation mining through selecting the argumenation model based on research into argumentation theories and related fields in communication studies or psychology. In particular, we adapt normative models from argumentation theory to perform empirical research in NLP and support our application of argumentation theories with an in-depth reliability study. Finally, we use state-of-the-art NLP techniques in order to build robust computational models for analyzing arguments that are capable of dealing with a variety of genres on the Web.
Our contributions
We create a new corpus which is, to the best of our knowledge, the largest corpus that has been annotated within the argumentation mining field to date. We choose several target domains from educational controversies, such as homeschooling, single-sex education, or mainstreaming. A novel aspect of the corpus is its coverage of different registers of user-generated Web content, such as comments to articles, discussion forum posts, blog posts, as well as professional newswire articles.
Since the data come from a variety of sources and no assumptions about its actual content with respect to argumentation can be drawn, we conduct two extensive annotation studies. In the first study, we tackle the problem of relatively high “noise” in the retrieved data. In particular, not all of the documents are related to the given topics in a way that makes them candidates for further deep analysis of argumentation (this study results into 990 annotated documents). In the second study, we discuss the selection of an appropriate argumentation model based on evidence in argumentation research and propose a model that is suitable for analyzing micro-level argumention in user-generated Web content. Using this model, we annotate 340 documents (approx. 90,000 tokens), reaching a substantial inter-annotator agreement. We provide a hand-analysis of all the phenomena typical to argumentation that are prevalent in our data. These findings may also serve as empirical evidence to issues that are on the spot of current argumentation research.
From the computational perspective, we experiment on the annotated data using various machine learning methods in order to extract argument structure from documents. We propose several novel feature sets and identify configurations that run best in in-domain and cross-domain scenarios. To foster research in the community, we provide the annotated data as well as all the experimental software under free license.
The rest of the article is structured as follows. First, we provide an essential background in argumentation theory in section SECREF2 . Section SECREF3 surveys related work in several areas. Then we introduce the dataset and two annotation studies in section SECREF4 . Section SECREF5 presents our experimental work and discusses the results and errors and section SECREF6 concludes this article.
Theoretical background
Let us first present some definitions of the term argumentation itself. [p. 3]Ketcham.1917 defines argumentation as “the art of persuading others to think or act in a definite way. It includes all writing and speaking which is persuasive in form.” According to MacEwan.1898, “argumentation is the process of proving or disproving a proposition. Its purpose is to induce a new belief, to establish truth or combat error in the mind of another.” [p. 2]Freeley.Steinberg.2008 narrow the scope of argumentation to “reason giving in communicative situations by people whose purpose is the justification of acts, beliefs, attitudes, and values.” Although these definitions vary, the purpose of argumentation remains the same – to persuade others.
We would like to stress that our perception of argumentation goes beyond somehow limited giving reasons BIBREF17 , BIBREF18 . Rather, we see the goal of argumentation as to persuade BIBREF19 , BIBREF20 , BIBREF21 . Persuasion can be defined as a successful intentional effort at influencing another's mental state through communication in a circumstance in which the persuadee has some measure of freedom BIBREF22 , although, as OKeefe2011 points out, there is no correct or universally-endorsed definition of either `persuasion' or `argumentation'. However, broader understanding of argumentation as a means of persuasion allows us to take into account not only reasoned discourse, but also non-reasoned mechanisms of influence, such as emotional appeals BIBREF23 .
Having an argument as a product within the argumentation process, we should now define it. One typical definition is that an argument is a claim supported by reasons BIBREF24 . The term claim has been used since 1950's, introduced by Toulmin.1958, and in argumentation theory it is a synonym for standpoint or point of view. It refers to what is an issue in the sense what is being argued about. The presence of a standpoint is thus crucial for argumentation analysis. However, the claim as well as other parts of the argument might be implicit; this is known as enthymematic argumentation, which is rather usual in ordinary argumentative discourse BIBREF25 .
One fundamental problem with the definition and formal description of arguments and argumentation is that there is no agreement even among argumentation theorists. As [p. 29]vanEmeren.et.al.2014 admit in their very recent and exhaustive survey of the field, ”as yet, there is no unitary theory of argumentation that encompasses the logical, dialectical, and rhetorical dimensions of argumentation and is universally accepted. The current state of the art in argumentation theory is characterized by the coexistence of a variety of theoretical perspectives and approaches, which differ considerably from each other in conceptualization, scope, and theoretical refinement.”
Argumentation models
Despite the missing consensus on the ultimate argumentation theory, various argumentation models have been proposed that capture argumentation on different levels. Argumentation models abstract from the language level to a concept level that stresses the links between the different components of an argument or how arguments relate to each other BIBREF26 . Bentahar.et.al.2010 propose a taxonomy of argumentation models, that is horizontally divided into three categories – micro-level models, macro-level models, and rhetorical models.
In this article, we deal with argumentation on the micro-level (also called argumentation as a product or monological models). Micro-level argumentation focuses on the structure of a single argument. By contrast, macro-level models (also called dialogical models) and rhetorical models highlight the process of argumentation in a dialogue BIBREF27 . In other words, we examine the structure of a single argument produced by a single author in term of its components, not the relations that can exist among arguments and their authors in time. A detailed discussion of these different perspectives can be found, e.g., in BIBREF28 , BIBREF29 , BIBREF30 , BIBREF1 , BIBREF31 , BIBREF32 .
Dimensions of argument
The above-mentioned models focus basically only on one dimension of the argument, namely the logos dimension. According to the classical Aristotle's theory BIBREF0 , argument can exist in three dimensions, which are logos, pathos, and ethos. Logos dimension represents a proof by reason, an attempt to persuade by establishing a logical argument. For example, syllogism belongs to this argumentation dimension BIBREF34 , BIBREF25 . Pathos dimension makes use of appealing to emotions of the receiver and impacts its cognition BIBREF35 . Ethos dimension of argument relies on the credibility of the arguer. This distinction will have practical impact later in section SECREF51 which deals with argumentation on the Web.
Original Toulmin's model
We conclude the theoretical section by presenting one (micro-level) argumentation model in detail – a widely used conceptual model of argumentation introduced by Toulmin.1958, which we will henceforth denote as the Toulmin's original model. This model will play an important role later in the annotation studies (section SECREF51 ) and experimental work (section SECREF108 ). The model consists of six parts, referred as argument components, where each component plays a distinct role.
is an assertion put forward publicly for general acceptance BIBREF38 or the conclusion we seek to establish by our arguments BIBREF17 .
It is the evidence to establish the foundation of the claim BIBREF24 or, as simply put by Toulmin, “the data represent what we have to go on.” BIBREF37 . The name of this concept was later changed to grounds in BIBREF38 .
The role of warrant is to justify a logical inference from the grounds to the claim.
is a set of information that stands behind the warrant, it assures its trustworthiness.
limits the degree of certainty under which the argument should be accepted. It is the degree of force which the grounds confer on the claim in virtue of the warrant BIBREF37 .
presents a situation in which the claim might be defeated.
A schema of the Toulmin's original model is shown in Figure FIGREF29 . The lines and arrows symbolize implicit relations between the components. An example of an argument rendered using the Toulmin's scheme can be seen in Figure FIGREF30 .
We believe that this theoretical overview should provide sufficient background for the argumentation mining research covered in this article; for further references, we recommend for example BIBREF15 .
Related work in computational linguistics
We structure the related work into three sub-categories, namely argumentation mining, stance detection, and persuasion and on-line dialogs, as these areas are closest to this article's focus. For a recent overview of general discourse analysis see BIBREF39 . Apart from these, research on computer-supported argumentation has been also very active; see, e.g., BIBREF40 for a survey of various models and argumentation formalisms from the educational perspective or BIBREF41 which examines argumentation in the Semantic Web.
Argumentation Mining
The argumentation mining field has been evolving very rapidly in the recent years, resulting into several workshops co-located with major NLP conferences. We first present related works with a focus on annotations and then review experiments with classifying argument components, schemes, or relations.
One of the first papers dealing with annotating argumentative discourse was Argumentative Zoning for scientific publications BIBREF42 . Later, Teufel.et.al.2009 extended the original 7 categories to 15 and annotated 39 articles from two domains, where each sentence is assigned a category. The obtained Fleiss' INLINEFORM0 was 0.71 and 0.65. In their approach, they tried to deliberately ignore the domain knowledge and rely only on general, rhetorical and logical aspect of the annotated texts. By contrast to our work, argumentative zoning is specific to scientific publications and has been developed solely for that task.
Reed.Rowe.2004 presented Araucaria, a tool for argumentation diagramming which supports both convergent and linked arguments, missing premises (enthymemes), and refutations. They also released the AracuariaDB corpus which has later been used for experiments in the argumentation mining field. However, the creation of the dataset in terms of annotation guidelines and reliability is not reported – these limitations as well as its rather small size have been identified BIBREF10 .
Biran.Rambow.2011 identified justifications for subjective claims in blog threads and Wikipedia talk pages. The data were annotated with claims and their justifications reaching INLINEFORM0 0.69, but a detailed description of the annotation approach was missing.
[p. 1078]Schneider.et.al.2013b annotated Wikipedia talk pages about deletion using 17 Walton's schemes BIBREF43 , reaching a moderate agreement (Cohen's INLINEFORM0 0.48) and concluded that their analysis technique can be reused, although “it is intensive and difficult to apply.”
Stab.Gurevych.2014 annotated 90 argumentative essays (about 30k tokens), annotating claims, major claims, and premises and their relations (support, attack). They reached Krippendorff's INLINEFORM0 0.72 for argument components and Krippendorff's INLINEFORM1 0.81 for relations between components.
Rosenthal2012 annotated sentences that are opinionated claims, in which the author expresses a belief that should be adopted by others. Two annotators labeled sentences as claims without any context and achieved Cohen's INLINEFORM0 0.50 (2,000 sentences from LiveJournal) and 0.56 (2,000 sentences from Wikipedia).
Aharoni.et.al.2014 performed an annotation study in order to find context-dependent claims and three types of context-dependent evidence in Wikipedia, that were related to 33 controversial topics. The claim and evidence were annotated in 104 articles. The average Cohen's INLINEFORM0 between a group of 20 expert annotators was 0.40. Compared to our work, the linguistic properties of Wikipedia are qualitatively different from other user-generated content, such as blogs or user comments BIBREF44 .
Wacholder.et.al.2014 annotated “argument discourse units” in blog posts and criticized the Krippendorff's INLINEFORM0 measure. They proposed a new inter-annotator metric by taking the most overlapping part of one annotation as the “core” and all annotations as a “cluster”. The data were extended by Ghosh2014, who annotated “targets” and “callouts” on the top of the units.
Park.Cardie.2014 annotated about 10k sentences from 1,047 documents into four types of argument propositions with Cohen's INLINEFORM0 0.73 on 30% of the dataset. Only 7% of the sentences were found to be non-argumentative.
Faulkner2014 used Amazon Mechanical Turk to annotate 8,179 sentences from student essays. Three annotators decided whether the given sentence offered reasons for or against the main prompt of the essay (or no reason at all; 66% of the sentences were found to be neutral and easy to identify). The achieved Cohen's INLINEFORM0 was 0.70.
The research has also been active on non-English datasets. Goudas.et.al.2014 focused on user-generated Greek texts. They selected 204 documents and manually annotated sentences that contained an argument (760 out of 16,000). They distinguished claims and premises, but the claims were always implicit. However, the annotation agreement was not reported, neither was the number of annotators or the guidelines. A study on annotation of arguments was conducted by Peldszus.Stede.2013, who evaluate agreement among 26 “naive" annotators (annotators with very little training). They manually constructed 23 German short texts, each of them contains exactly one central claim, two premises, and one objection (rebuttal or undercut) and analyzed annotator agreement on this artificial data set. Peldszus.2014 later achieved higher inter-rater agreement with expert annotators on an extended version of the same data. Kluge.2014 built a corpus of argumentative German Web documents, containing 79 documents from 7 educational topics, which were annotated by 3 annotators according to the claim-premise argumentation model. The corpus comprises 70,000 tokens and the inter-annotator agreement was 0.40 (Krippendorff's INLINEFORM0 ). Houy.et.al.2013 targeted argumentation mining of German legal cases.
Table TABREF33 gives an overview of annotation studies with their respective argumentation model, domain, size, and agreement. It also contains other studies outside of computational linguistics and few proposals and position papers.
Arguments in the legal domain were targeted in BIBREF11 . Using argumentation formalism inspired by Walton.2012, they employed multinomial Naive Bayes classifier and maximum entropy model for classifying argumentative sentences on the AraucariaDB corpus BIBREF45 . The same test dataset was used by Feng.Hirst.2011, who utilized the C4.5 decision classifier. Rooney.et.al.2012 investigated the use of convolution kernel methods for classifying whether a sentence belongs to an argumentative element or not using the same corpus.
Stab.Gurevych.2014b classified sentences to four categories (none, major claim, claim, premise) using their previously annotated corpus BIBREF7 and reached 0.72 macro- INLINEFORM0 score. In contrast to our work, their documents are expected to comply with a certain structure of argumentative essays and are assumed to always contain argumentation.
Biran.Rambow.2011 identified justifications on the sentence level using a naive Bayes classifier over a feature set based on statistics from the RST Treebank, namely n-grams which were manually processed by deleting n-grams that “seemed irrelevant, ambiguous or domain-specific.”
Llewellyn2014 experimented with classifying tweets into several argumentative categories, namely claims and counter-claims (with and without evidence) and verification inquiries previously annotated by Procter.et.al.2013. They used unigrams, punctuations, and POS as features in three classifiers.
Park.Cardie.2014 classified propositions into three classes (unverifiable, verifiable non-experimental, and verifiable experimental) and ignored non-argumentative texts. Using multi-class SVM and a wide range of features (n-grams, POS, sentiment clue words, tense, person) they achieved Macro INLINEFORM0 0.69.
Peldszus.2014 experimented with a rather complex labeling schema of argument segments, but their data were artificially created for their task and manually cleaned, such as removing segments that did not meet the criteria or non-argumentative segments.
In the first step of their two-phase approach, Goudas.et.al.2014 sampled the dataset to be balanced and identified argumentative sentences with INLINEFORM0 0.77 using the maximum entropy classifier. For identifying premises, they used BIO encoding of tokens and achieved INLINEFORM1 score 0.42 using CRFs.
Saint-Dizier.2012 developed a Prolog engine using a lexicon of 1300 words and a set of 78 hand-crafted rules with the focus on a particular argument structure “reasons supporting conclusions” in French.
Taking the dialogical perspective, Cabrio.Villata.2012 built upon an argumentation framework proposed by Dung.1995 which models arguments within a graph structure and provides a reasoning mechanism for resolving accepted arguments. For identifying support and attack, they relied on existing research on textual entailment BIBREF46 , namely using the off-the-shelf EDITS system. The test data were taken from a debate portal Debatepedia and covered 19 topics. Evaluation was performed in terms of measuring the acceptance of the “main argument" using the automatically recognized entailments, yielding INLINEFORM0 score about 0.75. By contrast to our work which deals with micro-level argumentation, the Dung's model is an abstract framework intended to model dialogical argumentation.
Finding a bridge between existing discourse research and argumentation has been targeted by several researchers. Peldszus2013a surveyed literature on argumentation and proposed utilization of Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) BIBREF47 . They claimed that RST is by its design well-suited for studying argumentative texts, but an empirical evidence has not yet been provided. Penn Discourse Tree Bank (PDTB) BIBREF48 relations have been under examination by argumentation mining researchers too. Cabrio2013b examined a connection between five Walton's schemes and discourse markers in PDTB, however an empirical evaluation is missing.
Stance detection
Research related to argumentation mining also involves stance detection. In this case, the whole document (discussion post, article) is assumed to represent the writer's standpoint to the discussed topic. Since the topic is stated as a controversial question, the author is either for or against it.
Somasundaran.Wiebe.2009 built a computational model for recognizing stances in dual-topic debates about named entities in the electronic products domain by combining preferences learned from the Web data and discourse markers from PDTB BIBREF48 . Hasan.Ng.2013 determined stance in on-line ideological debates on four topics using data from createdebate.com, employing supervised machine learning and features ranging from n-grams to semantic frames. Predicting stance of posts in Debatepedia as well as external articles using a probabilistic graphical model was presented in BIBREF49 . This approach also employed sentiment lexicons and Named Entity Recognition as a preprocessing step and achieved accuracy about 0.80 in binary prediction of stances in debate posts.
Recent research has involved joint modeling, taking into account information about the users, the dialog sequences, and others. Hasan.Ng.2012 proposed machine learning approach to debate stance classification by leveraging contextual information and author's stances towards the topic. Qiu.et.al.2013 introduced a computational debate side model to cluster posts or users by sides for general threaded discussions using a generative graphical model employing words from various subjectivity lexicons as well as all adjectives and adverbs in the posts. Qiu.Jiang.2013 proposed a graphical model for viewpoint discovery in discussion threads. Burfoot.et.al.2011 exploited the informal citation structure in U.S. Congressional floor-debate transcripts and use a collective classification which outperforms methods that consider documents in isolation.
Some works also utilize argumentation-motivated features. Park.et.al.2011 dealt with contentious issues in Korean newswire discourse. Although they annotate the documents with “argument frames”, the formalism remains unexplained and does not refer to any existing research in argumentation. Walker.et.al.2012b incorporated features with some limited aspects of the argument structure, such as cue words signaling rhetorical relations between posts, POS generalized dependencies, and a representation of the parent post (context) to improve stance classification over 14 topics from convinceme.net.
Online persuasion
Another stream of research has been devoted to persuasion in online media, which we consider as a more general research topic than argumentation.
Schlosser.2011 investigated persuasiveness of online reviews and concluded that presenting two sides is not always more helpful and can even be less persuasive than presenting one side. Mohammadi.et.al.2013 explored persuasiveness of speakers in YouTube videos and concluded that people are perceived more persuasive in video than in audio and text. Miceli.et.al.2006 proposed a computational model that attempts to integrate emotional and non-emotional persuasion. In the study of Murphy.2001, persuasiveness was assigned to 21 articles (out of 100 manually preselected) and four of them are later analyzed in detail for comparing the perception of persuasion between expert and students. Bernard.et.al.2012 experimented with children's perception of discourse connectives (namely with “because”) to link statements in arguments and found out that 4- and 5-years-old and adults are sensitive to the connectives. Le.2004 presented a study of persuasive texts and argumentation in newspaper editorials in French.
A coarse-grained view on dialogs in social media was examined by Bracewell.et.al.2013, who proposed a set of 15 social acts (such as agreement, disagreement, or supportive behavior) to infer the social goals of dialog participants and presented a semi-supervised model for their classification. Their social act types were inspired by research in psychology and organizational behavior and were motivated by work in dialog understanding. They annotated a corpus in three languages using in-house annotators and achieved INLINEFORM0 in the range from 0.13 to 0.53.
Georgila.et.al.2011 focused on cross-cultural aspects of persuasion or argumentation dialogs. They developed a novel annotation scheme stemming from different literature sources on negotiation and argumentation as well as from their original analysis of the phenomena. The annotation scheme is claimed to cover three dimensions of an utterance, namely speech act, topic, and response or reference to a previous utterance. They annotated 21 dialogs and reached Krippendorff's INLINEFORM0 between 0.38 and 0.57.
Given the broad landscape of various approaches to argument analysis and persuasion studies presented in this section, we would like to stress some novel aspects of the current article. First, we aim at adapting a model of argument based on research by argumentation scholars, both theoretical and empirical. We pose several pragmatical constraints, such as register independence (generalization over several registers). Second, our emphasis is put on reliable annotations and sufficient data size (about 90k tokens). Third, we deal with fairly unrestricted Web-based sources, so additional steps of distinguishing whether the texts are argumentative are required. Argumentation mining has been a rapidly evolving field with several major venues in 2015. We encourage readers to consult an upcoming survey article by Lippi.Torroni.2016 or the proceedings of the 2nd Argumentation Mining workshop BIBREF50 to keep up with recent developments. However, to the best of our knowledge, the main findings of this article have not yet been made obsolete by any related work.
Annotation studies and corpus creation
This section describes the process of data selection, annotation, curation, and evaluation with the goal of creating a new corpus suitable for argumentation mining research in the area of computational linguistics. As argumentation mining is an evolving discipline without established and widely-accepted annotation schemes, procedures, and evaluation, we want to keep this overview detailed to ensure full reproducibility of our approach. Given the wide range of perspectives on argumentation itself BIBREF15 , variety of argumentation models BIBREF27 , and high costs of discourse or pragmatic annotations BIBREF48 , creating a new, reliable corpus for argumentation mining represents a substantial effort.
A motivation for creating a new corpus stems from the various use-cases discussed in the introduction, as well as some research gaps pointed in section SECREF1 and further discussed in the survey in section SECREF31 (e.g., domain restrictions, missing connection to argumentation theories, non-reported reliability or detailed schemes).
Topics and registers
As a main field of interest in the current study, we chose controversies in education. One distinguishing feature of educational topics is their breadth of sub-topics and points of view, as they attract researchers, practitioners, parents, students, or policy-makers. We assume that this diversity leads to the linguistic variability of the education topics and thus represents a challenge for NLP. In a cooperation with researchers from the German Institute for International Educational Research we identified the following current controversial topics in education in English-speaking countries: (1) homeschooling, (2) public versus private schools, (3) redshirting — intentionally delaying the entry of an age-eligible child into kindergarten, allowing their child more time to mature emotionally and physically BIBREF51 , (4) prayer in schools — whether prayer in schools should be allowed and taken as a part of education or banned completely, (5) single-sex education — single-sex classes (males and females separate) versus mixed-sex classes (“co-ed”), and (6) mainstreaming — including children with special needs into regular classes.
Since we were also interested in whether argumentation differs across registers, we included four different registers — namely (1) user comments to newswire articles or to blog posts, (2) posts in discussion forums (forum posts), (3) blog posts, and (4) newswire articles. Throughout this work, we will refer to each article, blog post, comment, or forum posts as a document. This variety of sources covers mainly user-generated content except newswire articles which are written by professionals and undergo an editing procedure by the publisher. Since many publishers also host blog-like sections on their portals, we consider as blog posts all content that is hosted on personal blogs or clearly belong to a blog category within a newswire portal.
Raw corpus statistics
Given the six controversial topics and four different registers, we compiled a collection of plain-text documents, which we call the raw corpus. It contains 694,110 tokens in 5,444 documents. As a coarse-grained analysis of the data, we examined the lengths and the number of paragraphs (see Figure FIGREF43 ). Comments and forum posts follow a similar distribution, being shorter than 300 tokens on average. By contrast, articles and blogs are longer than 400 tokens and have 9.2 paragraphs on average. The process of compiling the raw corpus and its further statistics are described in detail in Appendix UID158 .
Annotation study 1: Identifying persuasive documents in forums and comments
The goal of this study was to select documents suitable for a fine-grained analysis of arguments. In a preliminary study on annotating argumentation using a small sample (50 random documents) of forum posts and comments from the raw corpus, we found that many documents convey no argumentation at all, even in discussions about controversies. We observed that such contributions do not intend to persuade; these documents typically contain story-sharing, personal worries, user interaction (asking questions, expressing agreement), off-topic comments, and others. Such characteristics are typical to on-line discussions in general, but they have not been examined with respect to argumentation or persuasion. Indeed, we observed that there are (1) documents that are completely unrelated and (2) documents that are related to the topic, but do not contain any argumentation. This issue has been identified among argumentation theorist; for example as external relevance by Paglieri.Castelfranchia.2014. Similar findings were also confirmed in related literature in argumentation mining, however never tackled empirically BIBREF53 , BIBREF8 These documents are thus not suitable for analyzing argumentation.
In order to filter documents that are suitable for argumentation annotation, we defined a binary document-level classification task. The distinction is made between either persuasive documents or non-persuasive (which includes all other sorts of texts, such as off-topic, story sharing, unrelated dialog acts, etc.).
The two annotated categories were on-topic persuasive and non-persuasive. Three annotators with near-native English proficiency annotated a set of 990 documents (a random subset of comments and forum posts) reaching 0.59 Fleiss' INLINEFORM0 . The final label was selected by majority voting. The annotation study took on average of 15 hours per annotator with approximately 55 annotated documents per hour. The resulting labels were derived by majority voting. Out of 990 documents, 524 (53%) were labeled as on-topic persuasive. We will refer to this corpus as gold data persuasive.
We examined all disagreements between annotators and discovered some typical problems, such as implicitness or topic relevance. First, the authors often express their stance towards the topic implicitly, so it must be inferred by the reader. To do so, certain common-ground knowledge is required. However, such knowledge heavily depends on many aspects, such as the reader's familiarity with the topic or her cultural background, as well as the context of the source website or the discussion forum thread. This also applies for sarcasm and irony. Second, the decision whether a particular topic is persuasive was always made with respect to the controversial topic under examination. Some authors shift the focus to a particular aspect of the given controversy or a related issue, making the document less relevant.
We achieved moderate agreement between the annotators, although the definition of persuasiveness annotation might seem a bit fuzzy. We found different amounts of persuasion in the specific topics. For instance, prayer in schools or private vs. public schools attract persuasive discourse, while other discussed controversies often contain non-persuasive discussions, represented by redshirting and mainstreaming. Although these two topics are also highly controversial, the participants of on-line discussions seem to not attempt to persuade but they rather exchange information, support others in their decisions, etc. This was also confirmed by socio-psychological researchers. Ammari.et.al.2014 show that parents of children with special needs rely on discussion sites for accessing information and social support and that, in particular, posts containing humor, achievement, or treatment suggestions are perceived to be more socially appropriate than posts containing judgment, violence, or social comparisons. According to Nicholson.Leask.2012, in the online forum, parents of autistic children were seen to understand the issue because they had lived it. Assuming that participants in discussions related to young kids (e.g., redshirting, or mainstreaming) are usually females (mothers), the gender can also play a role. In a study of online persuasion, Guadagno.Cialdini.2002 conclude that women chose to bond rather than compete (women feel more comfortable cooperating, even in a competitive environment), whereas men are motivated to compete if necessary to achieve independence.
Annotation study 2: Annotating micro-structure of arguments
The goal of this study was to annotate documents on a detailed level with respect to an argumentation model. First, we will present the annotation scheme. Second, we will describe the annotation process. Finally, we will evaluate the agreement and draw some conclusions.
Given the theoretical background briefly introduced in section SECREF2 , we motivate our selection of the argumentation model by the following requirements. First, the scope of this work is to capture argumentation within a single document, thus focusing on micro-level models. Second, there should exist empirical evidence that such a model has been used for analyzing argumentation in previous works, so it is likely to be suitable for our purposes of argumentative discourse analysis in user-generated content. Regarding the first requirement, two typical examples of micro-level models are the Toulmin's model BIBREF36 and Walton's schemes BIBREF55 . Let us now elaborate on the second requirement.
Walton's argumentation schemes are claimed to be general and domain independent. Nevertheless, evidence from the computational linguistics field shows that the schemes lack coverage for analyzing real argumentation in natural language texts. In examining real-world political argumentation from BIBREF56 , Walton.2012 found out that 37.1% of the arguments collected did not fit any of the fourteen schemes they chose so they created new schemes ad-hoc. Cabrio2013b selected five argumentation schemes from Walton and map these patterns to discourse relation categories in the Penn Discourse TreeBank (PDTB) BIBREF48 , but later they had to define two new argumentation schemes that they discovered in PDTB. Similarly, Song.et.al.2014 admitted that the schemes are ambiguous and hard to directly apply for annotation, therefore they modified the schemes and created new ones that matched the data.
Although Macagno.Konstantinidou.2012 show several examples of two argumentation schemes applied to few selected arguments in classroom experiments, empirical evidence presented by Anthony.Kim.2014 reveals many practical and theoretical difficulties of annotating dialogues with schemes in classroom deliberation, providing many details on the arbitrary selection of the sub-set of the schemes, the ambiguity of the scheme definitions, concluding that the presence of the authors during the experiment was essential for inferring and identifying the argument schemes BIBREF57 .
Although this model (refer to section SECREF21 ) was designed to be applicable to real-life argumentation, there are numerous studies criticizing both the clarity of the model definition and the differentiation between elements of the model. Ball1994 claims that the model can be used only for the most simple arguments and fails on the complex ones. Also Freeman1991 and other argumentation theorists criticize the usefulness of Toulmin's framework for the description of real-life argumentative texts. However, others have advocated the model and claimed that it can be applied to the people's ordinary argumenation BIBREF58 , BIBREF59 .
A number of studies (outside the field of computational linguistics) used Toulmin's model as their backbone argumentation framework. Chambliss1995 experimented with analyzing 20 written documents in a classroom setting in order to find the argument patterns and parts. Simosi2003 examined employees' argumentation to resolve conflicts. Voss2006 analyzed experts' protocols dealing with problem-solving.
The model has also been used in research on computer-supported collaborative learning. Erduran2004 adapt Toulmin's model for coding classroom argumentative discourse among teachers and students. Stegmann2011 builds on a simplified Toulmin's model for scripted construction of argument in computer-supported collaborative learning. Garcia-Mila2013 coded utterances into categories from Toulmin's model in persuasion and consensus-reaching among students. Weinberger.Fischer.2006 analyze asynchronous discussion boards in which learners engage in an argumentative discourse with the goal to acquire knowledge. For coding the argument dimension, they created a set of argumentative moves based on Toulmin's model. Given this empirical evidence, we decided to build upon the Toulmin's model.
In this annotation task, a sequence of tokens (e.g. a phrase, a sentence, or any arbitrary text span) is labeled with a corresponding argument component (such as the claim, the grounds, and others). There are no explicit relations between these annotation spans as the relations are implicitly encoded in the pragmatic function of the components in the Toulmin's model.
In order to prove the suitability of the Toulmin's model, we analyzed 40 random documents from the gold data persuasive dataset using the original Toulmin's model as presented in section SECREF21 . We took into account sever criteria for assessment, such as frequency of occurrence of the components or their importance for the task. We proposed some modifications of the model based on the following observations.
Authors do not state the degree of cogency (the probability of their claim, as proposed by Toulmin). Thus we omitted qualifier from the model due to its absence in the data.
The warrant as a logical explanation why one should accept the claim given the evidence is almost never stated. As pointed out by BIBREF37 , “data are appealed to explicitly, warrants implicitly.” This observation has also been made by Voss2006. Also, according to [p. 205]Eemeren.et.al.1987, the distinction of warrant is perfectly clear only in Toulmin’s examples, but the definitions fail in practice. We omitted warrant from the model.
Rebuttal is a statement that attacks the claim, thus playing a role of an opposing view. In reality, the authors often attack the presented rebuttals by another counter-rebuttal in order to keep the whole argument's position consistent. Thus we introduced a new component – refutation – which is used for attacking the rebuttal. Annotation of refutation was conditioned of explicit presence of rebuttal and enforced by the annotation guidelines. The chain rebuttal–refutation is also known as the procatalepsis figure in rhetoric, in which the speaker raises an objection to his own argument and then immediately answers it. By doing so, the speaker hopes to strengthen the argument by dealing with possible counter-arguments before the audience can raise them BIBREF43 .
The claim of the argument should always reflect the main standpoint with respect to the discussed controversy. We observed that this standpoint is not always explicitly expressed, but remains implicit and must be inferred by the reader. Therefore, we allow the claim to be implicit. In such a case, the annotators must explicitly write down the (inferred) stance of the author.
By definition, the Toulmin's model is intended to model single argument, with the claim in its center. However, we observed in our data, that some authors elaborate on both sides of the controversy equally and put forward an argument for each side (by argument here we mean the claim and its premises, backings, etc.). Therefore we allow multiple arguments to be annotated in one document. At the same time, we restrained the annotators from creating complex argument hierarchies.
Toulmin's grounds have an equivalent role to a premise in the classical view on an argument BIBREF15 , BIBREF60 in terms that they offer the reasons why one should accept the standpoint expressed by the claim. As this terminology has been used in several related works in the argumentation mining field BIBREF7 , BIBREF61 , BIBREF62 , BIBREF11 , we will keep this convention and denote the grounds as premises.
One of the main critiques of the original Toulmin's model was the vague distinction between grounds, warrant, and backing BIBREF63 , BIBREF64 , BIBREF65 . The role of backing is to give additional support to the warrant, but there is no warrant in our model anymore. However, what we observed during the analysis, was a presence of some additional evidence. Such evidence does not play the role of the grounds (premises) as it is not meant as a reason supporting the claim, but it also does not explain the reasoning, thus is not a warrant either. It usually supports the whole argument and is stated by the author as a certain fact. Therefore, we extended the scope of backing as an additional support to the whole argument.
The annotators were instructed to distinguish between premises and backing, so that premises should cover generally applicable reasons for the claim, whereas backing is a single personal experience or statements that give credibility or attribute certain expertise to the author. As a sanity check, the argument should still make sense after removing backing (would be only considered “weaker”).
We call the model as a modified Toulmin's model. It contains five argument components, namely claim, premise, backing, rebuttal, and refutation. When annotating a document, any arbitrary token span can be labeled with an argument component; the components do not overlap. The spans are not known in advance and the annotator thus chooses the span and the component type at the same time. All components are optional (they do not have to be present in the argument) except the claim, which is either explicit or implicit (see above). If a token span is not labeled by any argument component, it is not considered as a part of the argument and is later denoted as none (this category is not assigned by the annotators).
An example analysis of a forum post is shown in Figure FIGREF65 . Figure FIGREF66 then shows a diagram of the analysis from that example (the content of the argument components was shortened or rephrased).
The annotation experiment was split into three phases. All documents were annotated by three independent annotators, who participated in two training sessions. During the first phase, 50 random comments and forum posts were annotated. Problematic cases were resolved after discussion and the guidelines were refined. In the second phase, we wanted to extend the range of annotated registers, so we selected 148 comments and forum posts as well as 41 blog posts. After the second phase, the annotation guidelines were final.
In the final phase, we extended the range of annotated registers and added newswire articles from the raw corpus in order to test whether the annotation guidelines (and inherently the model) is general enough. Therefore we selected 96 comments/forum posts, 8 blog posts, and 8 articles for this phase. A detailed inter-annotator agreement study on documents from this final phase will be reported in section UID75 .
The annotations were very time-consuming. In total, each annotator spent 35 hours by annotating in the course of five weeks. Discussions and consolidation of the gold data took another 6 hours. Comments and forum posts required on average of 4 minutes per document to annotate, while blog posts and articles on average of 14 minutes per document. Examples of annotated documents from the gold data are listed in Appendix UID158 .
We discarded 11 documents out of the total 351 annotated documents. Five forum posts, although annotated as persuasive in the first annotation study, were at a deeper look a mixture of two or more posts with missing quotations, therefore unsuitable for analyzing argumentation. Three blog posts and two articles were found not to be argumentative (the authors took no stance to the discussed controversy) and one article was an interview, which the current model cannot capture (a dialogical argumentation model would be required).
For each of the 340 documents, the gold standard annotations were obtained using the majority vote. If simple majority voting was not possible (different boundaries of the argument component together with a different component label), the gold standard was set after discussion among the annotators. We will refer to this corpus as the gold standard Toulmin corpus. The distribution of topics and registers in this corpus in shown in Table TABREF71 , and Table TABREF72 presents some lexical statistics.
Based on pre-studies, we set the minimal unit for annotation as token. The documents were pre-segmented using the Stanford Core NLP sentence splitter BIBREF69 embedded in the DKPro Core framework BIBREF70 . Annotators were asked to stick to the sentence level by default and label entire pre-segmented sentences. They should switch to annotations on the token level only if (a) a particular sentence contained more than one argument component, or (b) if the automatic sentence segmentation was wrong. Given the “noise” in user-generated Web data (wrong or missing punctuation, casing, etc.), this was often the case.
Annotators were also asked to rephrase (summarize) each annotated argument component into a simple statement when applicable, as shown in Figure FIGREF66 . This was used as a first sanity checking step, as each argument component is expected to be a coherent discourse unit. For example, if a particular occurrence of a premise cannot be summarized/rephrased into one statement, this may require further splitting into two or more premises.
For the actual annotations, we developed a custom-made web-based application that allowed users to switch between different granularity of argument components (tokens or sentences), to annotate the same document in different argument “dimensions” (logos and pathos), and to write summary for each annotated argument component.
As a measure of annotation reliability, we rely on Krippendorff's unitized alpha ( INLINEFORM0 ) BIBREF71 . To the best of our knowledge, this is the only agreement measure that is applicable when both labels and boundaries of segments are to be annotated.
Although the measure has been used in related annotation works BIBREF61 , BIBREF7 , BIBREF72 , there is one important detail that has not been properly communicated. The INLINEFORM0 is computed over a continuum of the smallest units, such as tokens. This continuum corresponds to a single document in the original Krippendorff's work. However, there are two possible extensions to multiple documents (a corpus), namely (a) to compute INLINEFORM1 for each document first and then report an average value, or (b) to concatenate all documents into one large continuum and compute INLINEFORM2 over it. The first approach with averaging yielded extremely high the standard deviation of INLINEFORM3 (i.e., avg. = 0.253; std. dev. = 0.886; median = 0.476 for the claim). This says that some documents are easy to annotate while others are harder, but interpretation of such averaged value has no evidence either in BIBREF71 or other papers based upon it. Thus we use the other methodology and treat the whole corpus as a single long continuum (which yields in the example of claim 0.541 INLINEFORM4 ).
Table TABREF77 shows the inter-annotator agreement as measured on documents from the last annotation phase (see section UID67 ). The overall INLINEFORM0 for all register types, topics, and argument components is 0.48 in the logos dimension (annotated with the modified Toulmin's model). Such agreement can be considered as moderate by the measures proposed by Landis.Koch.1977, however, direct interpretation of the agreement value lacks consensus BIBREF54 . Similar inter-annotator agreement numbers were achieved in the relevant works in argumentation mining (refer to Table TABREF33 in section SECREF31 ; although most of the numbers are not directly comparable, as different inter-annotator metrics were used on different tasks).
There is a huge difference in INLINEFORM0 regarding the registers between comments + forums posts ( INLINEFORM1 0.60, Table TABREF77 a) and articles + blog posts ( INLINEFORM2 0.09, Table TABREF77 b) in the logos dimension. If we break down the value with respect to the individual argument components, the agreement on claim and premise is substantial in the case of comments and forum posts (0.59 and 0.69, respectively). By contrast, these argument components were annotated only with a fair agreement in articles and blog posts (0.22 and 0.24, respectively).
As can be also observed from Table TABREF77 , the annotation agreement in the logos dimension varies regarding the document topic. While it is substantial/moderate for prayer in schools (0.68) or private vs. public schools (0.44), for some topics it remains rather slight, such as in the case of redshirting (0.14) or mainstreaming (0.08).
First, we examine the disagreement in annotations by posing the following research question: are there any measurable properties of the annotated documents that might systematically cause low inter-annotator agreement? We use Pearson's correlation coefficient between INLINEFORM0 on each document and the particular property under investigation. We investigated the following set of measures.
Full sentence coverage ratio represents a ratio of argument component boundaries that are aligned to sentence boundaries. The value is 1.0 if all annotations in the particular document are aligned to sentences and 0.0 if no annotations match the sentence boundaries. Our hypothesis was that automatic segmentation to sentences was often incorrect, therefore annotators had to switch to the token level annotations and this might have increased disagreement on boundaries of the argument components.
Document length, paragraph length and average sentence length. Our hypotheses was that the length of documents, paragraphs, or sentences negatively affects the agreement.
Readability measures. We tested four standard readability measures, namely Ari BIBREF73 , Coleman-Liau BIBREF74 , Flesch BIBREF75 , and Lix BIBREF76 to find out whether readability of the documents plays any role in annotation agreement.
Correlation results are listed in Table TABREF82 . We observed the following statistically significant ( INLINEFORM0 ) correlations. First, document length negatively correlates with agreement in comments. The longer the comment was the lower the agreement was. Second, average paragraph length negatively correlates with agreement in blog posts. The longer the paragraphs in blogs were, the lower agreement was reached. Third, all readability scores negatively correlate with agreement in the public vs. private school domain, meaning that the more complicated the text in terms of readability is, the lower agreement was reached. We observed no significant correlation in sentence coverage and average sentence length measures. We cannot draw any general conclusion from these results, but we can state that some registers and topics, given their properties, are more challenging to annotate than others.
Another qualitative analysis of disagreements between annotators was performed by constructing a probabilistic confusion matrix BIBREF77 on the token level. The biggest disagreements, as can be seen in Table TABREF85 , is caused by rebuttal and refutation confused with none (0.27 and 0.40, respectively). This is another sign that these two argument components were very hard to annotate. As shown in Table TABREF77 , the INLINEFORM5 was also low – 0.08 for rebuttal and 0.17 for refutation.
We analyzed the annotations and found the following phenomena that usually caused disagreements between annotators.
Each argument component (e.g., premise or backing) should express one consistent and coherent piece of information, for example a single reason in case of the premise (see Section UID73 ). However, the decision whether a longer text should be kept as a single argument component or segmented into multiple components is subjective and highly text-specific.
While rhetorical questions have been researched extensively in linguistics BIBREF78 , BIBREF79 , BIBREF80 , BIBREF81 , their role in argumentation represents a substantial research question BIBREF82 , BIBREF83 , BIBREF84 , BIBREF85 , BIBREF86 . Teninbaum.2011 provides a brief history of rhetorical questions in persuasion. In short, rhetorical questions should provoke the reader. From the perspective of our argumentation model, rhetorical questions might fall both into the logos dimension (and thus be labeled as, e.g., claim, premise, etc.) or into the pathos dimension (refer to Section SECREF20 ). Again, the decision is usually not clear-cut.
As introduced in section UID55 , rebuttal attacks the claim by presenting an opponent's view. In most cases, the rebuttal is again attacked by the author using refutation. From the pragmatic perspective, refutation thus supports the author's stance expressed by the claim. Therefore, it can be easily confused with premises, as the function of both is to provide support for the claim. Refutation thus only takes place if it is meant as a reaction to the rebuttal. It follows the discussed matter and contradicts it. Such a discourse is usually expressed as:
[claim: My claim.] [rebuttal: On the other hand, some people claim XXX which makes my claim wrong.] [refutation: But this is not true, because of YYY.]
However, the author might also take the following defensible approach to formulate the argument:
[rebuttal: Some people claim XXX-1 which makes my claim wrong.] [refutation: But this is not true, because of YYY-1.] [rebuttal: Some people claim XXX-2 which makes my claim wrong.] [refutation: But this is not true, because of YYY-2.] [claim: Therefore my claim.]
If this argument is formulated without stating the rebuttals, it would be equivalent to the following:
[premise: YYY-1.] [premise: YYY-2.] [claim: Therefore my claim.]
This example shows that rebuttal and refutation represent a rhetorical device to produce arguments, but the distinction between refutation and premise is context-dependent and on the functional level both premise and refutation have very similar role – to support the author's standpoint. Although introducing dialogical moves into monological model and its practical consequences, as described above, can be seen as a shortcoming of our model, this rhetoric figure has been identified by argumentation researchers as procatalepsis BIBREF43 . A broader view on incorporating opposing views (or lack thereof) is discussed under the term confirmation bias by BIBREF21 who claim that “[...] people are trying to convince others. They are typically looking for arguments and evidence to confirm their own claim, and ignoring negative arguments and evidence unless they anticipate having to rebut them.” The dialectical attack of possible counter-arguments may thus strengthen one's own argument.
One possible solution would be to refrain from capturing this phenomena completely and to simplify the model to claims and premises, for instance. However, the following example would then miss an important piece of information, as the last two clauses would be left un-annotated. At the same time, annotating the last clause as premise would be misleading, because it does not support the claim (in fact, it supports it only indirectly by attacking the rebuttal; this can be seen as a support is considered as an admissible extension of abstract argument graph by BIBREF87 ).
Doc#422 (forumpost, homeschooling) [claim: I try not to be anti-homeschooling, but... it's just hard for me.] [premise: I really haven't met any homeschoolers who turned out quite right, including myself.] I apologize if what I'm saying offends any of you - that's not my intention, [rebuttal: I know that there are many homeschooled children who do just fine,] but [refutation: that hasn't been my experience.]
To the best of our knowledge, these context-dependent dialogical properties of argument components using Toulmin's model have not been solved in the literature on argumentation theory and we suggest that these observations should be taken into account in the future research in monological argumentation.
Appeal to emotion, sarcasm, irony, or jokes are common in argumentation in user-generated Web content. We also observed documents in our data that were purely sarcastic (the pathos dimension), therefore logical analysis of the argument (the logos dimension) would make no sense. However, given the structure of such documents, some claims or premises might be also identified. Such an argument is a typical example of fallacious argumentation, which intentionally pretends to present a valid argument, but its persuasion is conveyed purely for example by appealing to emotions of the reader BIBREF88 .
We present some statistics of the annotated data that are important from the argumentation research perspective. Regardless of the register, 48% of claims are implicit. This means that the authors assume that their standpoint towards the discussed controversy can be inferred by the reader and give only reasons for that standpoint. Also, explicit claims are mainly written just once, only in 3% of the documents the claim was rephrased and occurred multiple times.
In 6% of the documents, the reasons for an implicit claim are given only in the pathos dimension, making the argument purely persuasive without logical argumentation.
The “myside bias”, defined as a bias against information supporting another side of an argument BIBREF89 , BIBREF90 , can be observed by the presence of rebuttals to the author's claim or by formulating arguments for both sides when the overall stance is neutral. While 85% of the documents do not consider any opposing side, only 8% documents present a rebuttal, which is then attacked by refutation in 4% of the documents. Multiple rebuttals and refutations were found in 3% of the documents. Only 4% of the documents were overall neutral and presented arguments for both sides, mainly in blog posts.
We were also interested whether mitigating linguistic devices are employed in the annotated arguments, namely in their main stance-taking components, the claims. Such devices typically include parenthetical verbs, syntactic constructions, token agreements, hedges, challenge questions, discourse markers, and tag questions, among others BIBREF91 . In particular, [p. 1]Kaltenbock.et.al.2010 define hedging as a discourse strategy that reduces the force or truth of an utterance and thus reduces the risk a speaker runs when uttering a strong or firm assertion or other speech act. We manually examined the use of hedging in the annotated claims.
Our main observation is that hedging is used differently across topics. For instance, about 30-35% of claims in homeschooling and mainstreaming signal the lack of a full commitment to the expressed stance, in contrast to prayer in schools (15%) or public vs. private schools (about 10%). Typical hedging cues include speculations and modality (“If I have kids, I will probably homeschool them.”), statements as neutral observations (“It's not wrong to hold the opinion that in general it's better for kids to go to school than to be homeschooled.”), or weasel phrases BIBREF92 (“In some cases, inclusion can work fantastically well.”, “For the majority of the children in the school, mainstream would not have been a suitable placement.”).
On the other hand, most claims that are used for instance in the prayer in schools arguments are very direct, without trying to diminish its commitment to the conveyed belief (for example, “NO PRAYER IN SCHOOLS!... period.”, “Get it out of public schools”, “Pray at home.”, or “No organized prayers or services anywhere on public school board property - FOR ANYONE.”). Moreover, some claims are clearly offensive, persuading by direct imperative clauses towards the opponents/audience (“TAKE YOUR KIDS PRIVATE IF YOU CARE AS I DID”, “Run, don't walk, to the nearest private school.”) or even accuse the opponents for taking a certain stance (“You are a bad person if you send your children to private school.”).
These observations are consistent with the findings from the first annotation study on persuasion (see section UID48 ), namely that some topics attract heated argumentation where participant take very clear and reserved standpoints (such as prayer in schools or private vs. public schools), while discussions about other topics are rather milder. It has been shown that the choices a speaker makes to express a position are informed by their social and cultural background, as well as their ability to speak the language BIBREF93 , BIBREF94 , BIBREF91 . However, given the uncontrolled settings of the user-generated Web content, we cannot infer any similar conclusions in this respect.
We investigated premises across all topics in order to find the type of support used in the argument. We followed the approach of Park.Cardie.2014, who distinguished three types of propositions in their study, namely unverifiable, verifiable non-experiential, and verifiable experiential.
Verifiable non-experiential and verifiable experiential propositions, unlike unverifiable propositions, contain an objective assertion, where objective means “expressing or dealing with facts or conditions as perceived without distortion by personal feelings, prejudices, or interpretations.” Such assertions have truth values that can be proved or disproved with objective evidence; the correctness of the assertion or the availability of the objective evidence does not matter BIBREF8 . A verifiable proposition can further be distinguished as experiential or not, depending on whether the proposition is about the writer's personal state or experience or something non-experiential. Verifiable experiential propositions are sometimes referred to as anectotal evidence, provide the novel knowledge that readers are seeking BIBREF8 .
Table TABREF97 shows the distribution of the premise types with examples for each topic from the annotated corpus. As can be seen in the first row, arguments in prayer in schools contain majority (73%) of unverifiable premises. Closer examination reveals that their content vary from general vague propositions to obvious fallacies, such as a hasty generalization, straw men, or slippery slope. As Nieminen.Mustonen.2014 found out, fallacies are very common in argumentation about religion-related issues. On the other side of the spectrum, arguments about redshirting rely mostly on anecdotal evidence (61% of verifiable experiential propositions). We will discuss the phenomena of narratives in argumentation in more detail later in section UID98 . All the topics except private vs. public schools exhibit similar amount of verifiable non-experiential premises (9%–22%), usually referring to expert studies or facts. However, this type of premises has usually the lowest frequency.
Manually analyzing argumentative discourse and reconstructing (annotating) the underlying argument structure and its components is difficult. As [p. 267]Reed2006 point out, “the analysis of arguments is often hard, not only for students, but for experts too.” According to [p. 81]Harrell.2011b, argumentation is a skill and “even for simple arguments, untrained college students can identify the conclusion but without prompting are poor at both identifying the premises and how the premises support the conclusion.” [p. 81]Harrell.2011 further claims that “a wide literature supports the contention that the particular skills of understanding, evaluating, and producing arguments are generally poor in the population of people who have not had specific training and that specific training is what improves these skills.” Some studies, for example, show that students perform significantly better on reasoning tasks when they have learned to identify premises and conclusions BIBREF95 or have learned some standard argumentation norms BIBREF96 .
One particular extra challenge in analyzing argumentation in Web user-generated discourse is that the authors produce their texts probably without any existing argumentation theory or model in mind. We assume that argumentation or persuasion is inherent when users discuss controversial topics, but the true reasons why people participate in on-line communities and what drives their behavior is another research question BIBREF97 , BIBREF98 , BIBREF99 , BIBREF100 . When the analyzed texts have a clear intention to produce argumentative discourse, such as in argumentative essays BIBREF7 , the argumentation is much more explicit and a substantially higher inter-annotator agreement can be achieved.
The model seems to be suitable for short persuasive documents, such as comments and forum posts. Its applicability to longer documents, such as articles or blog posts, is problematic for several reasons.
The argument components of the (modified) Toulmin's model and their roles are not expressive enough to capture argumentation that not only conveys the logical structure (in terms of reasons put forward to support the claim), but also relies heavily on the rhetorical power. This involves various stylistic devices, pervading narratives, direct and indirect speech, or interviews. While in some cases the argument components are easily recognizable, the vast majority of the discourse in articles and blog posts does not correspond to any distinguishable argumentative function in the logos dimension. As the purpose of such discourse relates more to rhetoric than to argumentation, unambiguous analysis of such phenomena goes beyond capabilities of the current argumentation model. For a discussion about metaphors in Toulmin's model of argumentation see, e.g., BIBREF102 , BIBREF103 .
Articles without a clear standpoint towards the discussed controversy cannot be easily annotated with the model either. Although the matter is viewed from both sides and there might be reasons presented for either of them, the overall persuasive intention is missing and fitting such data to the argumentation framework causes disagreements. One solution might be to break the document down to paragraphs and annotate each paragraph separately, examining argumentation on a different level of granularity.
As introduced in section SECREF20 , there are several dimensions of an argument. The Toulmin's model focuses solely on the logos dimension. We decided to ignore the ethos dimension, because dealing with the author's credibility remains unclear, given the variety of the source web data. However, exploiting the pathos dimension of an argument is prevalent in the web data, for example as an appeal to emotions. Therefore we experimented with annotating appeal to emotions as a separate category independent of components in the logos dimension. We defined some features for the annotators how to distinguish appeal to emotions. Figurative language such as hyperbole, sarcasm, or obvious exaggerating to “spice up” the argument are the typical signs of pathos. In an extreme case, the whole argument might be purely emotional, as in the following example.
Doc#1698 (comment, prayer in schools) [app-to-emot: Prayer being removed from school is just the leading indicator of a nation that is ‘Falling Away’ from Jehovah. [...] And the disasters we see today are simply God’s finger writing on the wall: Mene, mene, Tekel, Upharsin; that is, God has weighed America in the balances, and we’ve been found wanting. No wonder 50 million babies have been aborted since 1973. [...]]
We kept annotations on the pathos dimension as simple as possible (with only one appeal to emotions label), but the resulting agreement was unsatisfying ( INLINEFORM0 0.30) even after several annotation iterations. Appeal to emotions is considered as a type of fallacy BIBREF104 , BIBREF18 . Given the results, we assume that more carefully designed approach to fallacy annotation should be applied. To the best of our knowledge, there have been very few research works on modeling fallacies similarly to arguments on the discourse level BIBREF105 . Therefore the question, in which detail and structure fallacies should be annotated, remains open. For the rest of the paper, we thus focus on the logos dimension solely.
Some of the educational topics under examination relate to young children (e.g., redshirting or mainstreaming); therefore we assume that the majority of participants in discussions are their parents. We observed that many documents related to these topics contain narratives. Sometimes the story telling is meant as a support for the argument, but there are documents where the narrative has no intention to persuade and is simply a story sharing.
There is no widely accepted theory of the role of narratives among argumentation scholars. According to Fisher.1987, humans are storytellers by nature, and the “reason” in argumentation is therefore better understood in and through the narratives. He found that good reasons often take the form of narratives. Hoeken.Fikkers.2014 investigated how integration of explicit argumentative content into narratives influences issue-relevant thinking and concluded that identifying with the character being in favor of the issue yielded a more positive attitude toward the issue. In a recent research, Bex.2011 proposes an argumentative-narrative model of reasoning with evidence, further elaborated in BIBREF106 ; also Niehaus.et.al.2012 proposes a computational model of narrative persuasion.
Stemming from another research field, LeytonEscobar2014 found that online community members who use and share narratives have higher participation levels and that narratives are useful tools to build cohesive cultures and increase participation. Betsch.et.al.2010 examined influencing vaccine intentions among parents and found that narratives carry more weight than statistics.
Summary of annotation studies
This section described two annotation studies that deal with argumentation in user-generated Web content on different levels of detail. In section SECREF44 , we argued for a need of document-level distinction of persuasiveness. We annotated 990 comments and forum posts, reaching moderate inter-annotator agreement (Fleiss' INLINEFORM0 0.59). Section SECREF51 motivated the selection of a model for micro-level argument annotation, proposed its extension based on pre-study observations, and outlined the annotation set-up. This annotation study resulted into 340 documents annotated with the modified Toulmin's model and reached moderate inter-annotator agreement in the logos dimension (Krippendorff's INLINEFORM1 0.48). These results make the annotated corpora suitable for training and evaluation computational models and each of these two annotation studies will have their experimental counterparts in the following section.
Experiments
This section presents experiments conducted on the annotated corpora introduced in section SECREF4 . We put the main focus on identifying argument components in the discourse. To comply with the machine learning terminology, in this section we will use the term domain as an equivalent to a topic (remember that our dataset includes six different topics; see section SECREF38 ).
We evaluate three different scenarios. First, we report ten-fold cross validation over a random ordering of the entire data set. Second, we deal with in-domain ten-fold cross validation for each of the six domains. Third, in order to evaluate the domain portability of our approach, we train the system on five domains and test on the remaining one for all six domains (which we report as cross-domain validation).
Identification of argument components
In the following experiment, we focus on automatic identification of arguments in the discourse. Our approach is based on supervised and semi-supervised machine learning methods on the gold data Toulmin dataset introduced in section SECREF51 .
An argument consists of different components (such as premises, backing, etc.) which are implicitly linked to the claim. In principle one document can contain multiple independent arguments. However, only 4% of the documents in our dataset contain arguments for both sides of the issue. Thus we simplify the task and assume there is only one argument per document.
Given the low inter-annotator agreement on the pathos dimension (Table TABREF77 ), we focus solely on recognizing the logical dimension of argument. The pathos dimension of argument remains an open problem for a proper modeling as well as its later recognition.
Since the smallest annotation unit is a token and the argument components do not overlap, we approach identification of argument components as a sequence labeling problem. We use the BIO encoding, so each token belongs to one of the following 11 classes: O (not a part of any argument component), Backing-B, Backing-I, Claim-B, Claim-I, Premise-B, Premise-I, Rebuttal-B, Rebuttal-I, Refutation-B, Refutation-I. This is the minimal encoding that is able to distinguish two adjacent argument components of the same type. In our data, 48% of all adjacent argument components of the same type are direct neighbors (there are no "O" tokens in between).
We report Macro- INLINEFORM0 score and INLINEFORM1 scores for each of the 11 classes as the main evaluation metric. This evaluation is performed on the token level, and for each token the predicted label must exactly match the gold data label (classification of tokens into 11 classes).
As instances for the sequence labeling model, we chose sentences rather than tokens. During our initial experiments, we observed that building a sequence labeling model for recognizing argument components as sequences of tokens is too fine-grained, as a single token does not convey enough information that could be encoded as features for a machine learner. However, as discussed in section UID73 , the annotations were performed on data pre-segmented to sentences and annotating tokens was necessary only when the sentence segmentation was wrong or one sentence contained multiple argument components. Our corpus consists of 3899 sentences, from which 2214 sentences (57%) contain no argument component. From the remaining ones, only 50 sentences (1%) have more than one argument component. Although in 19 cases (0.5%) the sentence contains a Claim-Premise pair which is an important distinction from the argumentation perspective, given the overall small number of such occurrences, we simplify the task by treating each sentence as if it has either one argument component or none.
The approximation with sentence-level units is explained in the example in Figure FIGREF112 . In order to evaluate the expected performance loss using this approximation, we used an oracle that always predicts the correct label for the unit (sentence) and evaluated it against the true labels (recall that the evaluation against the true gold labels is done always on token level). We lose only about 10% of macro INLINEFORM0 score (0.906) and only about 2% of accuracy (0.984). This performance is still acceptable, while allowing to model sequences where the minimal unit is a sentence.
Table TABREF114 shows the distribution of the classes in the gold data Toulmin, where the labeling was already mapped to the sentences. The little presence of rebuttal and refutation (4 classes account only for 3.4% of the data) makes this dataset very unbalanced.
We chose SVMhmm BIBREF111 implementation of Structural Support Vector Machines for sequence labeling. Each sentence ( INLINEFORM0 ) is represented as a vector of real-valued features.
We defined the following feature sets:
FS0: Baseline lexical features
word uni-, bi-, and tri-grams (binary)
FS1: Structural, morphological, and syntactic features
First and last 3 tokens. Motivation: these tokens may contain discourse markers or other indicators for argument components, such as “therefore” and “since” for premises or “think” and “believe” for claims.
Relative position in paragraph and relative position in document. Motivation: We expect that claims are more likely to appear at the beginning or at the end of the document.
Number of POS 1-3 grams, dependency tree depth, constituency tree production rules, and number of sub-clauses. Based on BIBREF113 .
FS2: Topic and sentiment features
30 features taken from a vector representation of the sentence obtained by using Gibbs sampling on LDA model BIBREF114 , BIBREF115 with 30 topics trained on unlabeled data from the raw corpus. Motivation: Topic representation of a sentence might be valuable for detecting off-topic sentences, namely non-argument components.
Scores for five sentiment categories (from very negative to very positive) obtained from Stanford sentiment analyzer BIBREF116 . Motivation: Claims usually express opinions and carry sentiment.
FS3: Semantic, coreference, and discourse features
Binary features from Clear NLP Semantic Role Labeler BIBREF117 . Namely, we extract agent, predicate + agent, predicate + agent + patient + (optional) negation, argument type + argument value, and discourse marker which are based on PropBank semantic role labels. Motivation: Exploit the semantics of Capturing the semantics of the sentences.
Binary features from Stanford Coreference Chain Resolver BIBREF118 , e.g., presence of the sentence in a chain, transition type (i.e., nominal–pronominal), distance to previous/next sentences in the chain, or number of inter-sentence coreference links. Motivation: Presence of coreference chains indicates links outside the sentence and thus may be informative, for example, for classifying whether the sentence is a part of a larger argument component.
Results of a PTDB-style discourse parser BIBREF119 , namely the type of discourse relation (explicit, implicit), presence of discourse connectives, and attributions. Motivation: It has been claimed that discourse relations play a role in argumentation mining BIBREF120 .
FS4: Embedding features
300 features from word embedding vectors using word embeddings trained on part of the Google News dataset BIBREF121 . In particular, we sum up embedding vectors (dimensionality 300) of each word, resulting into a single vector for the entire sentence. This vector is then directly used as a feature vector. Motivation: Embeddings helped to achieve state-of-the-art results in various NLP tasks BIBREF116 , BIBREF122 .
Except the baseline lexical features, all feature types are extracted not only for the current sentence INLINEFORM0 , but also for INLINEFORM1 preceding and subsequent sentences, namely INLINEFORM2 , INLINEFORM3 , INLINEFORM4 INLINEFORM5 , INLINEFORM6 , where INLINEFORM7 was empirically set to 4. Each feature is then represented with a prefix to determine its relative position to the current sequence unit.
Let us first discuss the upper bounds of the system. Performance of the three human annotators is shown in the first column of Table TABREF139 (results are obtained from a cumulative confusion matrix). The overall Macro- INLINEFORM0 score is 0.602 (accuracy 0.754). If we look closer at the different argument components, we observe that humans are good at predicting claims, premises, backing and non-argumentative text (about 0.60-0.80 INLINEFORM1 ), but on rebuttal and refutation they achieve rather low scores. Without these two components, the overall human Macro- INLINEFORM2 would be 0.707. This trend follows the inter-annotator agreement scores, as discussed in section UID75 .
In our experiments, the feature sets were combined in the bottom-up manner, starting with the simple lexical features (FS0), adding structural and syntactic features (FS1), then adding topic and sentiment features (FS2), then features reflecting the discourse structure (FS3), and finally enriched with completely unsupervised latent vector space representation (FS4). In addition, we were gradually removing the simple features (e.g., without lexical features, without syntactic features, etc.) to test the system with more “abstract” feature sets (feature ablation). The results are shown in Table TABREF139 .
The overall best performance (Macro- INLINEFORM0 0.251) was achieved using the rich feature sets (01234 and 234) and significantly outperformed the baseline as well as other feature sets. Classification of non-argumentative text (the "O" class) yields about 0.7 INLINEFORM1 score even in the baseline setting. The boundaries of claims (Cla-B), premises (Pre-B), and backing (Bac-B) reach in average lower scores then their respective inside tags (Cla-I, Pre-I, Bac-I). It can be interpreted such that the system is able to classify that a certain sentence belongs to a certain argument component, but the distinction whether it is a beginning of the argument component is harder. The very low numbers for rebuttal and refutation have two reasons. First, these two argument components caused many disagreements in the annotations, as discussed in section UID86 , and were hard to recognize for the humans too. Second, these four classes have very few instances in the corpus (about 3.4%, see Table TABREF114 ), so the classifier suffers from the lack of training data.
The results for the in-domain cross validation scenario are shown in Table TABREF140 . Similarly to the cross-validation scenario, the overall best results were achieved using the largest feature set (01234). For mainstreaming and red-shirting, the best results were achieved using only the feature set 4 (embeddings). These two domains contain also fewer documents, compared to other domains (refer to Table TABREF71 ). We suspect that embeddings-based features convey important information when not enough in-domain data are available. This observation will become apparent in the next experiment.
The cross-domain experiments yield rather poor results for most of the feature combinations (Table TABREF141 ). However, using only feature set 4 (embeddings), the system performance increases rapidly, so it is even comparable to numbers achieved in the in-domain scenario. These results indicate that embedding features generalize well across domains in our task of argument component identification. We leave investigating better performing vector representations, such as paragraph vectors BIBREF123 , for future work.
Error analysis based on the probabilistic confusion matrix BIBREF124 shown in Table TABREF142 reveals further details. About a half of the instances for each class are misclassified as non-argumentative (the "O" prediction).
Backing-B is often confused with Premise-B (12%) and Backing-I with Premise-I (23%). Similarly, Premise-I is misclassified as Backing-I in 9%. This shows that distinguishing between backing and premises is not easy because these two components are similar such that they support the claim, as discussed in section UID86 . We can also see that the misclassification is consistent among *-B and *-I tags.
Rebuttal is often misclassified as Premise (28% for Rebuttal-I and 18% for Rebuttal-B; notice again the consistency in *-B and *-I tags). This is rather surprising, as one would expect that rebuttal would be confused with a claim, because its role is to provide an opposing view.
Refutation-B and Refutation-I is misclassified as Premise-I in 19% and 27%, respectively. This finding confirms the discussion in section UID86 , because the role of refutation is highly context-dependent. In a pragmatic perspective, it is put forward to indirectly support the claim by attacking the rebuttal, thus having a similar function to the premise.
We manually examined miss-classified examples produced the best-performing system to find out which phenomena pose biggest challenges. Properly detecting boundaries of argument components caused problems, as shown in Figure FIGREF146 (a). This goes in line with the granularity annotation difficulties discussed in section UID86 . The next example in Figure FIGREF146 (b) shows that even if boundaries of components were detected precisely, the distinction between premise and backing fails. The example also shows that in some cases, labeling on clause level is required (left-hand side claim and premise) but the approximation in the system cannot cope with this level of detail (as explained in section UID111 ). Confusing non-argumentative text and argument components by the system is sometimes plausible, as is the case of the last rhetorical question in Figure FIGREF146 (c). On the other hand, the last example in Figure FIGREF146 (d) shows that some claims using figurative language were hard to be identified. The complete predictions along with the gold data are publicly available.
SVMhmm offers many hyper-parameters with suggested default values, from which three are of importance. Parameter INLINEFORM0 sets the order of dependencies of transitions in HMM, parameter INLINEFORM1 sets the order of dependencies of emissions in HMM, and parameter INLINEFORM2 represents a trading-off slack versus magnitude of the weight-vector. For all experiments, we set all the hyper-parameters to their default values ( INLINEFORM3 , INLINEFORM4 , INLINEFORM5 ). Using the best performing feature set from Table TABREF139 , we experimented with a grid search over different values ( INLINEFORM6 , INLINEFORM7 , INLINEFORM8 ) but the results did not outperform the system trained with default parameter values.
The INLINEFORM0 scores might seem very low at the first glance. One obvious reason is the actual performance of the system, which gives a plenty of room for improvement in the future. But the main cause of low INLINEFORM2 numbers is the evaluation measure — using 11 classes on the token level is very strict, as it penalizes a mismatch in argument component boundaries the same way as a wrongly predicted argument component type. Therefore we also report two another evaluation metrics that help to put our results into a context.
Krippendorff's INLINEFORM0 — It was also used for evaluating inter-annotator agreement (see section UID75 ).
Boundary similarity BIBREF125 — Using this metric, the problem is treated solely as a segmentation task without recognizing the argument component types.
As shown in Table TABREF157 (the Macro- INLINEFORM0 scores are repeated from Table TABREF139 ), the best-performing system achieves 0.30 score using Krippendorf's INLINEFORM1 , which is in the middle between the baseline and the human performance (0.48) but is considered as poor from the inter-annotator agreement point of view BIBREF54 . The boundary similarity metrics is not directly suitable for evaluating argument component classification, but reveals a sub-task of finding the component boundaries. The best system achieved 0.32 on this measure. Vovk2013MT used this measure to annotate argument spans and his annotators achieved 0.36 boundary similarity score. Human annotators in BIBREF125 reached 0.53 boundary similarity score.
The overall performance of the system is also affected by the accuracy of individual NPL tools used for extracting features. One particular problem is that the preprocessing models we rely on (POS, syntax, semantic roles, coreference, discourse; see section UID115 ) were trained on newswire corpora, so one has to expect performance drop when applied on user-generated content. This is however a well-known issue in NLP BIBREF126 , BIBREF127 , BIBREF128 .
To get an impression of the actual performance of the system on the data, we also provide the complete output of our best performing system in one PDF document together with the gold annotations in the logos dimension side by side in the accompanying software package. We believe this will help the community to see the strengths of our model as well as possible limitations of our current approaches.
Conclusions
Let us begin with summarizing answers to the research questions stated in the introduction. First, as we showed in section UID55 , existing argumentation theories do offer models for capturing argumentation in user-generated content on the Web. We built upon the Toulmin's model and proposed some extensions.
Second, as compared to the negative experiences with annotating using Walton's schemes (see sections UID52 and SECREF31 ), our modified Toulmin's model offers a trade-off between its expressiveness and annotation reliability. However, we found that the capabilities of the model to capture argumentation depend on the register and topic, the length of the document, and inherently on the literary devices and structures used for expressing argumentation as these properties influenced the agreement among annotators.
Third, there are aspects of online argumentation that lack their established theoretical counterparts, such as rhetorical questions, figurative language, narratives, and fallacies in general. We tried to model some of them in the pathos dimension of argument (section UID103 ), but no satisfying agreement was reached. Furthermore, we dealt with a step that precedes argument analysis by filtering documents given their persuasiveness with respect to the controversy. Finally, we proposed a computational model based on machine learning for identifying argument components (section SECREF108 ). In this identification task, we experimented with a wide range of linguistically motivated features and found that (1) the largest feature set (including n-grams, structural features, syntactic features, topic distribution, sentiment distribution, semantic features, coreference feaures, discourse features, and features based on word embeddings) performs best in both in-domain and all-data cross validation, while (2) features based only on word embeddings yield best results in cross-domain evaluation.
Since there is no one-size-fits-all argumentation theory to be applied to actual data on the Web, the argumentation model and an annotation scheme for argumentation mining is a function of the task requirements and the corpus properties. Its selection should be based on the data at hand and the desired application. Given the proposed use-case scenarios (section SECREF1 ) and the results of our annotation study (section SECREF51 ), we recommend a scheme based on Toulmin's model for short documents, such as comments or forum posts.