U.S. agencies perform a wide variety of activities that contribute to export promotion, and responsibility for these activities is widely dispersed. Some of the services these agencies provide are intended, at least in part, to assist U.S. companies in entering foreign markets or expanding their presence abroad. For example, the U.S. government distributes trade-related information to exporters, conducts foreign country market research, and provides counseling to U.S. companies throughout the export process. U.S. agencies may also use diplomatic tools to advocate on behalf of U.S. companies to help ensure they can compete on a level playing field in export markets. Three of these agencies—State, Commerce, and USDA—receive appropriations that are restricted from being used to promote the sale or export of U.S. tobacco or tobacco products. These agencies promote the growth of other U.S. exports through various activities, as discussed in table 1. Congress has restricted the use of funds that are generally appropriated for State, Commerce, and USDA from being used to promote the sale or export of U.S. tobacco and tobacco products since the 1990s. In 1990, we reported that U.S. policy and programs for assisting the export of tobacco and tobacco products worked at cross purposes to U.S. health policy and initiatives, both domestically and internationally. Congress later restricted the use of funds that are generally appropriated to State, Commerce, and USDA from being used to promote the sale or export of U.S. tobacco and tobacco products. During fiscal years 1994 through 2003, Congress prohibited funds generally appropriated for USDA through annual appropriations acts from being used to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products. In fiscal year 2004, Congress permanently prohibited funds appropriated for USDA from being used to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products. According to USDA officials, USDA stopped its efforts to gather and disseminate tobacco-related production and consumption information overseas in the early 2000s. Congress restricted the use of certain appropriated funds, including appropriations for Commerce and State, from being used to promote the sale or export of U.S. tobacco and tobacco products from fiscal years 1998 through 2017. Congress passed the Departments of Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998, which prohibited the funds provided by the act from being used to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products. This act also prohibited the funds provided by the act from being used to seek the reduction or removal of foreign country restrictions on the marketing of tobacco or tobacco products. The act provided an exception for the funds to be used to address foreign-country restrictions on tobacco marketing that are not applied equally to all tobacco or tobacco products of the same type. These restrictions have been enacted through annual appropriations acts through fiscal year 2018. In fiscal year 2018, Congress altered the restriction language on tobacco promotion in the act making appropriations for State, which, according to State, makes promotion activities permissive with respect to the use of State appropriations. Congress used the term “should” in the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2018 (2018 State Appropriations Act) instead of the term “shall” as in prior acts making appropriations for State. Specifically, the 2018 State Appropriations Act states that “None of the funds made available by this Act should be available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products. . . .” In contrast, prior acts making appropriations for State stated “None of the funds made available by this Act shall be available to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products. . . .” According to State officials, they interpreted the term “shall” in prior appropriations acts as a mandatory action, whereas the use of the term “should” gives the agency more discretion in how it addresses the restrictions. However, State has not changed how it addresses the restrictions and does not plan to promote the sale or export of U.S. tobacco, according to State officials. The legislation restricting fiscal year 2018 appropriations provided to Commerce and USDA from being used to promote tobacco retains the mandatory “shall” language. According to Commerce and USDA officials, the change to State’s restriction language does not affect the agencies’ activities because Commerce and USDA are still subject to the mandatory restrictions outlined in their agencies’ appropriations language. State collaborates with Commerce, USDA, and other agencies to develop and periodically issue an interagency guidance cable to implement funding restrictions on promoting tobacco. According to officials, this cable serves as the primary source of guidance for implementing the restrictions on promoting tobacco for their officials at all posts overseas. State collaborates with Commerce, USDA, and other agencies to develop and periodically issue an interagency guidance cable to all posts overseas to facilitate their implementation of funding restrictions on promoting tobacco. State officials draft the updated cable and Commerce, USDA, and other agency officials have the opportunity to review and comment on it before State issues it through its cable system. This cable serves as the primary source of guidance for implementing the restrictions, according to officials at these agencies (see table 2). State has updated and issued the interagency guidance cable four times since 2013 to address changes in tobacco technology and other emerging issues, according to State officials. We identified two significant changes to the cable over the past 5 years. Addition of information concerning attendance at corporate social responsibility events: In May 2013, State added a provision that post officials should consult with headquarters before attending corporate social responsibility events involving U.S. tobacco companies. State officials in headquarters acknowledged that post officials may not link some activities, such as participating in corporate social responsibility events, to the promotion of or selling of products. They noted that this is why it is important to make post officials aware of the actions they should or should not take through the interagency guidance cable. Changes to the scope of tobacco products: In recent updates to the cable, State expanded the description of “tobacco and tobacco products” to address the emergence of new delivery systems for tobacco. Specifically, in 2014 State added the language “tobacco delivering products, such as electronic cigarettes” to provide an example of a tobacco product. In 2016, State changed the description to “electronic nicotine delivery systems such as e-cigarettes.” Then in 2018, State added “non-combustible products such as smokeless tobacco” to the description of tobacco products. In response to the revised funding restriction language in the 2018 State Appropriations Act, State modified the 2018 cable stating that the changes make promotion activities permissive with respect to the use of State appropriations. However, State decided not to change the portion of the cable describing specific actions officials should or should not take in the version it issued in April 2018, because according to State officials, they do not plan to promote tobacco. In addition, Commerce and USDA officials said that the change to State’s restriction language has not changed how they interpret the guidance. Commerce relies on both the interagency guidance cable as well as its client eligibility policy to implement restrictions on promoting tobacco. Commerce’s client eligibility policy applies to all export promotion services that Commerce provides and educates officials on how to effectively manage U.S. company requests for commercial assistance. The policy’s section on exceptions and other bases for declining services to companies states that Commerce is prohibited by law from promoting the export of tobacco or tobacco-related products. Commerce issued its updated client eligibility policy in October 2018. USDA relies on the interagency guidance cable to provide direction to its officials overseas, and does not have agency-specific guidance for implementing its permanent funding restrictions on promoting tobacco. USDA officials said that the cable sufficiently addresses the funding restrictions on the agency’s promotion activities and helps to ensure that all officials serving at posts overseas conduct activities in a consistent manner. Most State, Commerce, and USDA officials overseas we interviewed were aware of the restrictions on promoting tobacco. Most officials we interviewed had received some guidance concerning the restrictions, but several officials did not recall receiving the interagency guidance cable. Moreover, two of the agencies’ current training courses do not address the restrictions. Officials in 21 of the 24 offices overseas we interviewed were aware of the restrictions. The three offices that were not aware of the restrictions were from State. Although these officials were not aware of the restrictions, they said they had never provided services to U.S. tobacco companies. Commerce and USDA headquarters officials said that it is widely known within their agencies that staff should not promote tobacco. Commerce and USDA officials said the guidance concerning these restrictions has been consistent for many years and that staff in the field and in headquarters are very aware of the restrictions. Most officials overseas had received some guidance concerning the restrictions on promoting tobacco. Officials in 21 of the 24 offices overseas we interviewed had received written or verbal guidance concerning the restrictions on promoting tobacco at some point in their career. For example, officials in 15 offices mentioned receiving the State-issued interagency guidance cable when we asked them what type of tobacco-related guidance they had received. In addition, officials in four of the eight Commerce offices recalled receiving agency-specific guidance. Some officials said that their supervisors had informed them they are not allowed to promote tobacco exports. Some officials did not recall receiving the interagency guidance cable, which agency officials said serves as the primary source of guidance for implementing the restrictions, and some were not aware that State periodically issues the cable. For example, one USDA official stated that he could not recall the last time he received guidance and noted that cables can easily be overlooked. He recommended that USDA improve its efforts to distribute the cable and have supervisors maintain an annual checklist to ensure staff have read and understand it or incorporate it into annual training. A State official told us that he was in Washington, D.C. when State issued the prior cable and he did not learn about it until he had been stationed at his next overseas post for several months. A Commerce official noted that some officials new to post may not receive the interagency guidance cable for several months. All officials working overseas can access the interagency guidance cable through the State cable database or access other resources if a tobacco- related issue arises. For example, the Commerce client eligibility policy and the interagency guidance cable are available on an internal Commerce website. USDA officials in headquarters stated that they do not remind officials overseas about the restrictions or available guidance, but that, in response to our audit work, they plan to send an annual reminder. Finally, many post officials we interviewed said that they are aware of the activities their colleagues are undertaking and would have the opportunity to educate their colleagues before they provided any services to a tobacco company. Officials in 15 of the 24 offices overseas we interviewed said they did not receive any training concerning restrictions on promoting tobacco. In the past, State, Commerce, and USDA did not include information about the funding restrictions or related guidance in training materials. State and USDA officials in headquarters confirmed that training materials for officials conducting export promotion activities overseas do not address funding restrictions on promoting tobacco. According to an official at State’s Foreign Service Institute, tobacco products may be discussed in a trade-related course when describing those products officials should not advocate for, or in the 6-month economic studies course when examining the nexus between trade issues and public policy. However, State could not provide documentation of where this is specifically addressed in its curriculum. A USDA official stated that none of the Foreign Agricultural Service training courses explicitly discuss restrictions on promoting tobacco. According to Commerce officials, the training for new trade specialists did not include information about the restrictions on promoting tobacco when Commerce last provided the training in 2014. However, in response to our audit work, Commerce added this information into its training materials for new trade specialists in September 2018. Officials who do not receive training on the restrictions early in their careers may not be aware that they are prohibited from promoting tobacco. For example, one Commerce official told us he did not know about the restrictions while serving at his first post when he attended a meeting that involved representatives from the tobacco industry. He noted that he now questions whether he would have attended the meeting if he had known about the restrictions. Federal internal control standards state that appropriate training, aimed at developing employee knowledge, skills, and abilities, is essential to an organization’s operational success. If agencies do not explicitly include information about the restrictions and related guidance in training materials for officials conducting export promotion activities overseas, officials may work at a post for several months, or longer, before learning about the restrictions. The State, Commerce, and USDA officials we interviewed said they have implemented the funding restrictions on tobacco as outlined in the interagency guidance cable issued by State. For example, post officials said they have not promoted the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products or attended events solely sponsored by tobacco companies, though many officials said they attended events at which officials from tobacco companies were present. Post officials identified three areas of the guidance that may benefit from additional clarification, according to interviews with agency officials and our review of agency emails. Our interviews with State, Commerce, and USDA officials in 24 offices in nine countries and our review of agency documents, showed that posts have implemented the interagency guidance outlining actions they should not take (see table 3.) Post officials identified three areas of the guidance that may benefit from additional clarification, according to our interviews with agency officials and our review of agency emails: attendance at events, the types of permitted services, and the description of tobacco products. Officials from all three agencies raised questions about whether and when it is permissible to attend events at which tobacco company representatives are present. The guidance does not specifically address attendance at events also attended by representatives of tobacco companies. State headquarters officials said the vast majority of questions received from posts concern whether personnel at a post may participate in an event when representatives from a company engaged in the tobacco industry are also expected to participate in that event. We also reviewed emails in which Commerce officials asked for additional guidance about attending events or meetings with tobacco companies. For example, one post official asked whether the embassy could invite a tobacco company to participate in an embassy-organized trade mission that would include meetings with the local governor and mayor. In this case, Commerce headquarters officials advised that the tobacco company’s participation could be construed as U.S. government support for the company’s commercial activities and recommended against including the tobacco company. A USDA official in headquarters also noted that attending events could, in some cases, be construed as supporting tobacco companies, and noted that this is an area where staff could use more guidance. Representatives from several tobacco control organizations expressed concern that interactions between U.S. government officials and representatives from tobacco companies at events organized by business associations created a perception that the U.S. government supported tobacco company sales in the country. For example, in 2017 a business association hosted a trade mission to one Southeast Asian country that included representatives from 30 U.S. companies, including a U.S. tobacco company. In response, two tobacco control organizations wrote to the U.S. ambassador in that country voicing their concern that U.S. government officials’ attendance at meetings that included the tobacco company representatives violated the spirit of the interagency guidance cable and gave the appearance that the U.S. government supports the tobacco company. Subsequently, the Deputy Chief of Mission distributed guidance specific to that post stating that officials were not allowed to attend a trade mission’s events or meetings if representatives from a tobacco company were scheduled to give a presentation. Several post officials said that attending events organized by business associations is a key function of their job. They attend these events to, among other things, exchange information about the local business climate and learn about the concerns of American companies. Commerce and USDA officials identified ambiguities in the guidance concerning the types of services they are allowed to provide to tobacco companies or the tobacco industry. In 14 of the 21 Commerce emails we reviewed, officials at posts asked for additional guidance about the types of services they are permitted to provide to tobacco companies or the types of companies or products they can support. For example, some post officials asked whether they could engage with the host country government to obtain information about pending tobacco-related legislation at the request of a tobacco company. In one case, Commerce headquarters advised post officials that the restrictions did not prohibit them from raising concerns on a legislative proposal that would discriminate against foreign tobacco companies. They further noted that because of the sensitive nature of tobacco-related issues, any policy decision to engage should be weighed carefully. Commerce’s client eligibility policy does not provide a description of the types of actions Commerce officials should and should not take with regards to tobacco companies and products. The interagency guidance cable also does not provide information about some types of services, such as whether officials should engage with host country government officials to learn about pending tobacco-related legislation. According to a USDA official, some officials overseas interpret “promotional” activities differently and did not agree on whether both marketing and trade-related activities, such as enforcing trade agreements, are promotional activities. Commerce officials at post asked for additional guidance about whether they could provide export promotion services to companies exporting certain tobacco-related products in 3 of the 21 emails we reviewed. For example, some Commerce officials asked whether they could provide services to companies selling component parts for electronic nicotine delivery systems, such as e-liquids. Commerce’s prior client eligibility policy, issued in May 2017, did not include a list of tobacco products covered by the policy; whereas, the interagency guidance cable issued in 2014 states that tobacco products include tobacco delivery systems, such as electronic cigarettes, and the updated version issued in 2018 added non-combustible products, such as smokeless tobacco, to this description. However, neither the interagency guidance cable nor Commerce’s updated client eligibility policy specifically states whether the description includes component parts for electronic cigarettes and other tobacco products. GAO previously reported that electronic cigarettes include a wide range of products that share the same basic design and generally consist of three main parts: a power source, a heating element, and a cartridge or tank containing liquid solution, which is often sold separately. According to State officials in headquarters, the guidance on promoting tobacco was written for a broad audience and to make post officials mindful of the restrictions. They said they trust that officials overseas will use their professional judgment and in-country expertise to determine if post’s support for an event or a company will be construed as promotion of a tobacco product. Moreover, State and Commerce officials said that they expect officials overseas to ask headquarters questions to clarify the interagency guidance cable. While federal standards for internal control state that management should clearly document internal controls in policies and guidance to prevent officials from failing to achieve an objective or address a risk, we found that the interagency guidance does not provide examples of the factors post officials should consider when attending business association events. The guidance also lacks sufficient examples of the types of services officials are allowed to provide to tobacco companies and a clear description of tobacco products. More specific guidance would help ensure that State, Commerce, and USDA officials consistently implement their agency-specific funding restrictions on promoting tobacco exports. The United States exported over $2 billion in tobacco and tobacco-related products in 2017. Congress has enacted restrictions on the use of certain appropriated funds to promote the sale or export of U.S. tobacco or tobacco products since the 1990s, and State, Commerce, and USDA have developed and updated guidance to implement these restrictions. However, not all officials were aware of the restrictions and more than half had not received training about the restrictions. Including information about the restrictions in training materials would help make officials aware of the restrictions early in their careers and prompt them to seek guidance if a tobacco-related issue arises. If officials conducting export promotion activities are unaware of the funding restrictions on promoting tobacco sales and exports, they may also be unaware of the activities they should and should not undertake. Moreover, some officials said that the guidance is unclear in some areas. Although officials said they need to attend business association events to support all U.S. companies conducting business in a country, they were unsure whether they can attend events where representatives from U.S. tobacco companies may be present. In addition, some officials also indicated that the current guidance lacks clarity on the types of services officials are allowed to provide to tobacco interests and what constitutes a tobacco product. Although we did not identify any instances in which a State, Commerce, or USDA official directly promoted U.S. tobacco products, clearer guidance would help to ensure that officials will consistently implement their agency-specific funding restrictions. We are making three recommendations, including two to State and one to USDA. Specifically: The Secretary of State should work with the Foreign Service Institute to include information about the funding restrictions and relevant guidance on promoting the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products in its training materials for employees conducting export promotion activities overseas. (Recommendation 1) The Secretary of Agriculture should include information about the funding restrictions and relevant guidance on promoting the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products in training materials for employees conducting export promotion activities overseas. (Recommendation 2) The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Agriculture, should assess the interagency guidance cable on promoting tobacco in light of questions raised by officials at posts overseas and update it to address ambiguities, as needed. (Recommendation 3) We provided a draft of this report to State, Commerce, USDA, and USTR for review and comment. In their comments, reproduced in appendix III, State concurred with our recommendations and described planned actions to address them. USDA concurred with the recommendation and told us that they had no comments on the draft report. Commerce and USTR told us that they had no comments on the draft report. As agreed with your offices, unless you publicly announce the contents of this report earlier, we plan no further distribution until 30 days from the report date. At that time, we will send copies to the appropriate congressional committees, the Secretary of the Department of State, the Secretary of the Department of Commerce, the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Trade Representative, and other interested parties. In addition, the report will be available at no charge on the GAO website at http://www.gao.gov. If you or your staff have any questions about this report, please contact me at (202) 512-3149 or gootnickd@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. GAO staff who made key contributions to this report are listed in appendix IV. This report examines (1) the guidance select U.S. agencies have issued to implement funding restrictions on promoting tobacco exports overseas, (2) to what extent overseas officials from select U.S. agencies were aware of the restrictions and guidance, and (3) to what extent select U.S. agencies have implemented this guidance overseas. To address our first objective, we reviewed U.S. appropriations laws that prohibited the funds appropriated therein from being used to promote the sale or export of tobacco or tobacco products. We also reviewed guidance issued by the Departments of State (State) and Commerce (Commerce) concerning the promotion of tobacco exports overseas. We also interviewed officials in headquarters from State, Commerce, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) about the funding restrictions on promoting tobacco exports overseas and the development and revision of guidance on tobacco promotion. To address our second objective, we interviewed officials in headquarters from State, Commerce, and USDA about any training officials posted overseas receive concerning the funding restrictions on promoting tobacco exports. In addition, we held structured interviews with 35 State, Commerce, and USDA officials overseas conducting export promotion activities and reached out to an additional 10 officials to ask about activities associated with the solicitation of gifts and attendance at corporate social responsibility events. These officials were located across 11 posts and in 9 countries. We interviewed officials in Cambodia, Croatia, Dominican Republic, Honduras, Indonesia, Philippines, South Africa, Thailand, and Vietnam. Because multiple officials from one agency attended a meeting in some cases, we are reporting their combined responses as one “office” response. Thus, we are reporting the results from the 24 offices we interviewed—9 State, 8 Commerce, and 7 USDA offices. We selected this non-generalizable sample of countries based on criteria that included the countries’ large or increasing amounts of U.S. tobacco imports, relatively high tobacco smoking prevalence rates, and geographic dispersion. The information obtained from these interviews is neither generalizable nor reflects the experiences of all State, Commerce, and USDA officials serving at posts overseas, but it does provide insights into officials’ experiences at post and illustrative examples across our sample on the topics discussed. To address our third objective, we interviewed officials in headquarters from State, Commerce, and USDA about post officials’ implementation of guidance regarding the promotion of tobacco exports, the types of questions they receive from post officials about the funding restrictions and guidance, and the additional advice they provide to post officials overseas. We asked post officials about the clarity of guidance, whether they attended events sponsored or attended by representatives of U.S. tobacco companies, and whether they discussed tobacco-related issues with host country government officials during our structured interviews with the 24 State, Commerce, and USDA offices overseas. We also analyzed a Commerce database, agency emails, and State cables and conducted a literature search. Commerce documents all the fee-based services it provides to companies in a database. We obtained a list of approximately 30,000 fee-based services Commerce provided in fiscal years 2013 through 2017, which included the name of the companies to which Commerce provided these services. We then downloaded a list of 763 U.S. tobacco companies from Nexus using criteria such as industry classification codes related to tobacco and tobacco products and the location of company headquarters. We limited the list of U.S. tobacco companies to those with revenues greater than $5 million. We then compared the two lists to determine if Commerce provided any fee-based services to U.S. tobacco companies. To assess the reliability of the Commerce fee-based services data, we reviewed relevant documentation and interviewed knowledgeable officials about system controls. We determined that Commerce’s fee-based services data were sufficiently reliable for the purposes of our reporting objectives. In addition, we requested State, Commerce, and USDA email communications concerning tobacco-related issues sent between January 2015 and February 2018 from post officials to headquarters. State was only able to provide one such email. USDA provided several emails, but the emails were not from USDA post officials to USDA officials in headquarters. Commerce provided us 21 emails that matched our request and an additional 20 emails from officials working throughout the United States. We analyzed the Commerce email communications to identify commonly asked questions or concerns about the existing guidance and actions the agencies should take to support U.S. tobacco companies or the tobacco industry. We also requested State cables from the eight countries in our sample sent between January 2013 and December 2017 that referenced at least 1 of the 10 U.S. tobacco companies with the highest revenues. We received and reviewed cables from six of these countries. We also conducted a literature search to identify instances in which U.S. government officials may have conducted activities addressed by the interagency tobacco guidance cable. To identify relevant articles, such as trade or industry articles, we searched various databases, including ProQuest and Nexus. From these sources, we identified one article relevant to our research objective. We performed these searches in December 2017 and searched for articles published from January 2013 to December 2017. We also interviewed representatives of the tobacco control community and business associations to obtain their perspectives concerning U.S. government support for tobacco exports and U.S. government interactions with U.S. tobacco companies. Specifically, we interviewed the World Health Organization (WHO), four global or regional tobacco control nongovernmental organizations, and several local nongovernmental organizations in two countries in our scope. In addition, we interviewed officials from the local American Chamber of Commerce and the U.S.- Association of Southeast Asian Nations Business Council in two countries. The information obtained from these interviews is neither generalizable nor reflects the experiences of all tobacco control organizations or business associations, but it does provide insights into these officials’ experiences. We conducted this performance audit from November 2017 to December 2018 in accordance with generally accepted government auditing standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. The United States exported over $2.1 billion in tobacco and tobacco products in 2017. Figure 1 shows how tobacco exports fluctuated from 2007 to 2017. Specifically, total tobacco exports have ranged from a high of approximately $2.4 billion in 2007 to a low of about $1.7 billion in 2012. U.S. tobacco exports to Asia have decreased by 68 percent over the past 11 years, whereas exports to North America have increased 10-fold (see fig. 2). Most of the decrease in exports to Asia is attributable to reduced exports to Japan, which fell 95 percent from 2007 to 2017. Most of the increases in exports to North America are attributable to Canada, which accounted for approximately 40 percent of total U.S. tobacco exports in 2017. David B. Gootnick, (202) 512-3149 or gootnickd@gao.gov. In addition to the contact named above, Cheryl Goodman (Assistant Director), Celia Thomas (Assistant Director), Amanda Bartine, Leah DeWolf, Jewel Conrad, Aldo Salerno, and Neil Doherty made key contributions to this report. Grace Lui, Justin Fisher, and Ming Chen provided technical assistance.