The National Cemeteries Act of 1973 created the modern veterans’ cemetery system. NCA, within VA, manages a majority of veterans’ cemeteries in the United States. In that role NCA maintains existing national cemeteries and builds new national cemeteries for the nation’s veterans and their family members. Since 1978 NCA has also provided funding through VA’s Veterans Cemetery Grants Program (Grants Program) to help establish, expand, or improve state and tribal veterans’ cemeteries. States and tribal governments seeking funding from the Grants Program must apply to the VA. Any cemetery established, expanded, or improved through funding from VA’s Grants Program must be maintained and operated in accordance with NCA’s operational standards. Veterans from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and some U.S. territories are served by national, state, or tribal cemeteries. In addition, over time NCA has changed its policies and procedures to better fulfill its mission to serve and honor veterans and their family members. For example, in 2011 NCA lowered its policy threshold for establishing new national cemeteries from an area having at least 170,000 veterans who are unserved by burial options to an area having 80,000 unserved veterans. NCA established this revised policy threshold in recognition that many highly populated areas still lacked reasonable access to a burial option, and based on data and analysis provided by an independent review of VA’s burial benefits program in 2008. This revised minimum veteran population threshold was chosen based on data showing that state veterans’ cemeteries funded through VA’s Grants Program were located in areas that typically served a maximum of 80,000 veterans within a 75-mile service area. According to VA documentation, moving to this lower threshold has enabled the agency to establish new national cemeteries in areas where states may not have been willing to place them because of the size and cost of operating a larger state veterans’ cemetery. NCA offers a variety of facilities to meet the burial needs of veterans, including various cemetery configurations that either provide burial options to eligible veterans or improve their access to burial options, as shown in table 1. NCA uses county-level population data to determine whether veterans currently have reasonable access to burial options and uses county-level population projections to support decisions about future cemetery locations. NCA makes its decisions regarding whether a veteran is served or unserved based on the county in which the veteran resided, without reference to the location of the veteran’s actual residence. NCA’s methodology uses a veteran’s county of residence as a proxy for being within 75 miles of a veterans’ cemetery. NCA’s plan entails establishing 18 new national cemeteries—comprised of five traditional national cemeteries and 13 urban and rural initiative national cemeteries—and awarding funds for new state veterans’ cemeteries. In 2014, we reported that NCA estimated approximately 90 percent of the veteran population had reasonable access to burial options, and that it expected to reach its strategic goal of providing reasonable access to 96 percent of veterans by the end of fiscal year 2017. Since 2014, NCA has revised its strategic goal to provide reasonable access to 95 percent of the veteran population, and NCA’s current long-range plan to achieve this goal covers fiscal years 2018- 2022. NCA’s 2014 plan to increase veterans’ access to burial options included building 18 new national cemeteries as follows: Five traditional national cemeteries, to be located in Western New York; Central East Florida; Southern Colorado; Tallahassee, Florida; and Omaha, Nebraska. Taken together, according to NCA, these cemeteries are intended to provide a burial option to an additional 550,000 veterans and their families. Five urban initiative cemeteries, to be located in Los Angeles, California; the San Francisco Bay Area, California; Chicago, Illinois; Indianapolis, Indiana; and New York, New York. Taken together, according to NCA, the urban initiative is intended to expand burial options for approximately 2.4 million additional veterans in certain urban areas. NCA announced this initiative in 2011 with the purpose of expanding burial options in urban areas through building columbaria-only (facilities for cremated remains) national cemeteries close to the urban core. Eight rural initiative cemeteries, to be located in Idaho, Maine, Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, Utah, Wisconsin, and Wyoming. Taken together, according to NCA, the intent of the rural initiative is to increase the burial options for approximately 106,000 additional veterans in certain rural areas. NCA announced this initiative in 2012 with the purpose of increasing access by establishing new national cemeteries for states with no open national cemetery and a population of 25,000 or fewer veterans. In addition, since 1978, NCA has used the Grants Program to help increase veterans’ cemetery access. The Grants Program was established to complement national cemeteries by assisting state, territory, and tribal government applicants to establish, expand, or improve veterans’ cemeteries in order to provide gravesites for veterans in those areas where NCA cannot fully satisfy their burial needs. As noted earlier, states and tribal governments seeking grant funding must apply to the VA. States, funded by the Grants Program, often build in areas with veteran populations that are too small to qualify for a national cemetery. NCA prioritizes pending grant applications by giving the highest priority to cemetery construction projects in geographic locations with the greatest projected number of veterans who will benefit from the project, as determined by NCA based on county-level population projections. In 2018, NCA provided funding for a total of 15 grants for the expansion, improvement, or establishment of state and tribal government veterans’ cemeteries. This includes the establishment of two new state and tribal government veterans’ cemeteries. In 2019, NCA expects to provide funding for 17 state and tribal government veterans’ cemetery projects, three of which would be for new cemeteries. While NCA has made some progress in implementing its plan to increase burial access for veterans, that progress has been limited, as it is years behind its original schedule for opening new cemeteries. In its efforts, NCA has experienced three key challenges: (1) acquiring suitable land for new national cemeteries, (2) estimating the costs associated with establishing new national cemeteries, and (3) using all available data to inform how its Grants Program targets unserved veteran populations. In 2014, NCA planned to open 18 new sites by the end of fiscal year 2017 to better serve the burial needs of the veteran population. As of September 2019, NCA has opened four new traditional national cemeteries—Tallahassee National Cemetery in Tallahassee, Florida; Cape Canaveral National Cemetery in Mims, Florida; Omaha National Cemetery in Omaha, Nebraska; and Pikes Peak National Cemetery in Colorado Springs, Colorado. NCA also opened two of its eight planned rural initiative cemeteries—Yellowstone National Cemetery in Laurel, Montana, and Fargo National Cemetery in Harwood, North Dakota. As a result, according to NCA, by the end of fiscal year 2018 the percentage of veterans with reasonable access had increased from 90 percent to about 92 percent. As previously discussed, NCA’s goal is to provide 95 percent of veterans with reasonable access to burial options. As we reported in 2014, NCA had initially planned to open all of its 13 urban and rural initiative sites by the end of fiscal year 2017. As shown in figure 1, NCA had originally estimated completing all five of its urban initiative sites by the end of fiscal year 2015. However, the completion dates for all of these sites have slipped multiple times. In July 2019, NCA officials stated that the planned completion dates for the urban initiative sites were as follows: October 2019 for Los Angeles, sometime in 2020 for New York and Indianapolis, September 2021 for Chicago, and sometime in 2027 for San Francisco. As shown in figure 2, NCA has opened two of its rural initiative sites, in Laurel, Montana, and Fargo, North Dakota. However, the completion dates for the other six rural initiative sites have slipped multiple times. In September 2019, NCA officials stated that the planned completion dates for the rural initiative sites were currently Fall 2019 for Twin Falls, Idaho, Machias, Maine, and Rhinelander, Wisconsin; sometime in 2020 for Cheyenne, Wyoming; and Summer 2021 for Cedar City, Utah. NCA did not provide a specific estimated completion date for the site in Elko, Nevada, affirming that it would be completed “in a future year.” When we asked NCA officials why the rural and urban initiative sites were currently projected to take years longer to complete than originally planned, they replied that they might have overstated their 2014 expectations for having all initiative sites completed by the end of fiscal year 2017. NCA officials also stated that it takes at least 12 months for the land acquisition phase of cemetery construction projects; 9 to 12 months for the design phase; and 12 to 15 months—sometimes up to 30—for the construction phase. According to NCA officials, as of September 2019, five of the 11 initiative sites had reached the construction phase, and one of the sites no longer had an estimated completion date. There were still some outstanding or unresolved issues that had complicated NCA’s ability to estimate a completion date for the site in Elko, Nevada. See figure 3 for a timeline of each of NCA’s urban and rural initiative sites as of September 2019. In executing its plans to increase access to burial options for veterans, NCA has experienced three key challenges: (1) acquiring suitable land for new national cemeteries; (2) estimating the costs associated with establishing new national cemeteries; and (3) using all available data to inform how its Grants Program targets unserved veteran populations. The primary factor that has led NCA to adjust its timelines for completing these cemeteries concerns challenges in acquiring suitable land. Such challenges include difficulty in finding viable land for development, legal issues related to the acquisitions process, and resistance from the local community, among others. Four examples are described below, including two instances in which, as of July 2019, NCA had not yet acquired suitable land, which may further delay the opening of those specific urban and rural sites. Chicago, Illinois. NCA officials stated that they are on their fifth attempt to acquire land for the urban initiative site in Chicago, Illinois. In addition, they said that the environmental assessment process for the Chicago site is currently underway, and that a site viability decision will not occur until the environmental assessment process is completed later in 2019. According to NCA documentation we reviewed, NCA initiated the land acquisition process for the Chicago site in June 2011 and planned to complete the process by July 2018. If the fifth attempt to acquire land is not successful, then NCA will attempt—for the sixth time—to acquire land. According to NCA officials, this would result in an additional 12 to 18 months to identify and evaluate new property for potential acquisition, likely further delaying the opening of this site. See figure 4 for more details on NCA’s attempts to acquire land for the urban initiative site in Chicago. Elko, Nevada. NCA officials stated that they have identified a top- rated site for the rural initiative site in Elko, Nevada, on land currently owned by the Bureau of Land Management. However, according to NCA officials, Congress would need to enact legislation transferring this land from the Bureau of Land Management to VA before NCA could begin construction. As of June 2019, Congress had not done so. According to NCA officials, VA has opened dialogue with local officials about drafting a utility agreement for the city to construct infrastructure needed to supply water to the site. Implementation of a utility agreement would be dependent upon whether future legislation may potentially be introduced and subsequently passed authorizing the Bureau of Land Management to permanently transfer property to VA for national cemetery use. Also, according to NCA officials, once legislation has passed to allow the transfer of land from the Bureau of Land Management to VA, they estimate it will take 12 to 18 months for the land transfer to be completed. Indianapolis, Indiana. In a written response, NCA officials stated that construction for the urban initiative site in Indianapolis, Indiana, has been delayed by about a year due to a public protest of NCA’s acquisition of the site because of environmental concerns, which resulted in a land transfer with the previous landowner in January 2019. In addition, NCA had to conduct a partial project re-design for the exchanged property. According to NCA’s May 2018 plan of actions and milestones, it had expected to have acquired the land for the Indianapolis site by August 2018 and to have completed construction in December 2019. However, officials told us in September 2018 that, due to the delays in acquiring the land, NCA had revised its planned construction completion date to August 2020. Los Angeles, California. According to officials, NCA is partnering with the Veterans Health Administration, which transferred property for the proposed columbarium at the Los Angeles, California, urban initiative site. Officials stated that this project was delayed initially due to the need to remove existing encumbrances on the land (for example, leases with tenants), among other things. In July 2019, officials stated that the project is scheduled for completion in October 2019. According to NCA officials, unforeseen site conditions can also contribute to delays in cemetery construction projects. During the design phase, soil and geotechnical samples are taken but do not cover the entire site. After excavation begins, issues such as rock formations or hazardous waste not identified during the geotechnical investigation may create challenges to developing land for cemetery use. For example, in July 2019 NCA officials stated that the urban initiative site in San Francisco had encountered major geotechnical and soil issues, causing the project completion to slip to 2027. Also, according to NCA’s 2017 annual status report to Congress on new national cemeteries, the cemetery construction contract for a new cemetery construction project in Western New York could not begin solicitation until additional parcels of land had been acquired. Those parcels of land have a gas well and a gas pipeline that must be relocated. According to NCA officials, as of September 2019, six of the 11 urban and rural initiative sites had not yet begun to be excavated, and any issues that arise during the excavation process at these sites could pose further scheduling delays. NCA’s Cost Estimates for Most of Its Rural Initiative Sites Have Increased Significantly We found that NCA’s cost estimates for seven rural initiative sites have increased significantly above what NCA officials had initially estimated. In its strategy, NCA had estimated that the construction cost estimate for each of the seven rural initiative sites would be approximately $1 million (totaling approximately $7 million). However, NCA officials told us in August 2018 that the construction cost estimates for these sites had increased to more than $3 million each (totaling almost $24 million). This amounts to a cost increase of more than 200 percent. Further, the information they provided was not always consistent. For example, in July 2018 NCA officials provided us the average land acquisition and construction costs for the urban and rural initiatives. According to the document they provided, the average construction cost for each urban initiative cemetery is $7.5 million. However, in August 2018 NCA stated in a written response that the construction cost estimates for each of the urban initiatives ranged from approximately $9 million to more than $22 million, reflecting an average cost of $13.6 million. NCA’s cost-estimating guidance used to prepare construction cost estimates does not fully incorporate the 12 steps identified in our Cost Guide that should result in reliable and valid estimates that management can use to make informed decisions, as shown in table 2. Appendix I provides a detailed summary of our assessment of NCA’s cost-estimating guidance. Specifically, NCA’s cost-estimating guidance fully met one step, substantially met four steps, partially met four steps, minimally met two steps, and did not meet one step. For example: NCA’s cost-estimating guidance fully met the step of “obtaining the data” in that it requires a market survey that explores all factors that will affect the bid cost and collects valid and useful historical data to develop a sound cost estimate. NCA’s cost-estimating guidance substantially met the step of “updating the estimate” in that it requires cost estimates to be regularly updated. For instance, it requires an updated cost-estimating report at each stage of the design of the construction project. NCA’s cost-estimating guidance minimally met the step of “conducting a risk and uncertainty analysis” in that, while it mentions the inclusion of a risk analysis, it does not describe what a risk analysis is and how it relates to cost. Additionally, none of the guidance we reviewed contains any discussion of risk management. NCA’s cost-estimating guidance did not meet the step of “conducting a sensitivity analysis.” According to our Cost Guide, a sensitivity analysis should be included in all cost estimates because it examines the effects of changing assumptions and ground rules. Because uncertainty cannot be avoided, it is necessary to identify the cost elements that represent the most risk, and cost estimators should if possible quantify the risk. NCA uses multiple guidance documents on cost estimation and requires that managers and contractors use all of these documents in implementing their projects. Specifically, NCA uses VA’s 2011 Manual for Preparation of Cost Estimates and Related Documents for VA Facilities (Manual); VA’s 2011 Architect/Engineer (A/E) Submission Requirements for National Cemetery Projects Program Guide PG 18-15 Volume D (Guide); and NCA’s Construction Program Conceptual Estimate Worksheet. We refer to these documents collectively as “NCA’s cost- estimating guidance.” We previously reported on VA’s management of minor construction projects and made several recommendations, including that the Veterans Health Administration revise its cost-estimating guidance to incorporate the 12 steps presented in the Cost Guide, to help VA have greater assurance that its cost estimates for minor construction projects are reliable. VA concurred and stated that it would ensure that the Veterans Health Administration update its cost-estimating guidance by incorporating the 12 steps outlined in the Cost Guide, as applicable. As of August 2019, VA had not taken any action to implement this recommendation. The guidance document it plans to update, the VA Manual, is also used by NCA. Further, NCA uses additional guidance documents to develop cost estimates for its cemetery construction projects—including the urban and rural initiatives—that do not fully incorporate the 12 steps presented in the Cost Guide. Without NCA’s revising its cost-estimating guidance to more fully reflect the 12 steps in the Cost Guide, including “conducting a risk and uncertainty analysis,” NCA will not be well-positioned to provide reliable cost estimates to VA and enable it to make informed decisions regarding the management of cemetery construction projects. As noted earlier, the Grants Program is part of NCA’s plan to increase veterans’ reasonable access to burial options. According to NCA officials, their plan to meet their strategic goal of 95 percent of veterans being served by burial options relies, in part, on the state and tribal government efforts funded by the Grants Program. The Grants Program, in turn, relies on states and tribal governments applying for funding to build new cemeteries or expand existing cemeteries. An NCA official told us that NCA does not have the authority to formally request that a state seek grant funding to expand access in an unserved area. However, according to VA officials, the Grants Program has had informal discussions with states that it believes have larger concentrations of unserved veterans, in order to encourage grant applications to provide increased burial access for unserved veteran populations. When reviewing grant applications, NCA considers a number of factors, including how the grant would enhance access for unserved veterans. NCA officials stated that they use the VA’s county-level population data to identify veteran population areas unserved by national, state, or tribal government veterans’ cemeteries. This analysis also allows NCA to project where additional state and tribal government veterans’ cemeteries may be most needed. Specifically, NCA has ranked what it identified as the 40 largest currently unserved veteran population areas. NCA performs this ranking at the county level, not the more precise census tract level, although as we have previously reported it has the technical ability to use census tract data. In September 2014, we reported that NCA was using population data at the county level to identify veterans not served by burial options, and that using population data at the census tract level would enhance NCA’s management of the national cemetery program. Specifically, we recommended that NCA use its existing capabilities to estimate the served and unserved veteran populations using census tract data. This would have allowed them to make better-informed decisions concerning where to locate new national cemeteries, as well as identify which state and tribal government cemetery grant applications would provide reasonable burial access to the greatest number of veterans. However, VA did not concur with that recommendation. In its comments on our draft report, VA agreed that census tract data may yield more precise information than county-level population data, but it disagreed with our conclusion that the use of census tract data would have helped VA to make better-informed decisions regarding the location of burial options. For this review, we performed an analysis using census tract data to examine the 40 prospective sites that NCA has identified as the currently largest unserved areas, using current veteran population data. Our analysis yielded estimates for veterans in the service areas for these prospective sites that differed substantially in some instances from the numbers used by NCA (see figure 5). For example, NCA ranked Erie, Pennsylvania, as 4th on its list of prospective sites, based on its estimate that an additional 45,154 veterans could be served by a cemetery at this location. However, using census tract data we estimate that only about 10,000 veterans could be served there, resulting in a lower priority for Erie, Pennsylvania, on this list of prospective sites. Similarly, the county- based methodology used by NCA ranked Decatur, Alabama, as 25th on the list of prospective sites, while our methodology based upon nearby census tracts placed it 2nd on the list by estimated number of veterans in the service area. Thus, even though it could serve many additional veterans, Decatur, Alabama, would not be ranked highly on the list for funding using NCA’s methodology. By using the more precise census tract data to help inform its grant- making decisions, NCA could enhance its ability to implement its plan to provide burial options to unserved veterans. Comparing estimates of unserved veterans based on current census tract data with such estimates based on current county-level data can be a useful supplement to NCA’s current reliance on long-term projected county-level population data. Comparing census tract data with county-level data could also identify areas where the county-level projections might be overridden or require additional scrutiny. This could position NCA to better identify those areas of the country that will have the most significant unserved veteran populations. Additionally, this could help NCA refine its current plans or develop new ones, as it deems appropriate. We therefore continue to maintain the validity of our 2014 recommendation for VA to use census tract data to estimate the served and unserved veteran populations to help inform its plans for providing reasonable access to burial options. By NCA’s estimates, more than 2.1 million veterans—about 10 percent of the veterans in the United States—did not have reasonable access to burial options at the end of fiscal year 2013. According to NCA, its plan had helped increase the percentage served by burial options to about 92 percent of the veteran population by the end of fiscal year 2018. However, completion of some of the urban and rural sites that are part of NCA’s plan is currently estimated to take 5 years or longer than planned at significantly higher cost, in part because construction cost estimates for the remaining sites may be unreliable. Without NCA’s revising its cost- estimating guidance to more fully reflect the 12 steps in the Cost Guide, including “conducting a risk and uncertainty analysis,” NCA will not be well-positioned to provide reliable cost estimates to VA and enable it to make informed decisions regarding the funding and oversight of NCA’s ongoing minor construction projects to enhance veterans’ burial options. The Secretary of Veterans Affairs should ensure that the Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs update its cost-estimating procedures for cemetery construction projects to fully incorporate the 12 steps identified in the GAO Cost Estimating and Assessment Guide: Best Practices for Developing and Managing Capital Program Costs. We provided a draft of this report to VA for review and comment. In written comments, VA concurred with our recommendation. VA also provided technical comments, which we incorporated as appropriate. VA’s comments are printed in their entirety in appendix II. In its technical comments, VA disagreed with our finding that NCA had made limited progress implementing its plan for increasing burial access for veterans and stated that NCA had instead made significant progress. As we note in this report, in 2014, NCA planned to open 18 new sites by the end of fiscal year 2017 to better serve the burial needs of the veteran population. However, as of September 2019, only six of the planned sites were open, with NCA years behind its original schedule. For this reason, we characterized the progress as “limited.” While the progress has been limited, it is important to note that the opening of the six sites has increased accessibility of burial options to veterans. VA also stated that it continues to disagree with our 2014 recommendation that VA use census tract data to estimate the current served and unserved veteran populations to inform its plans for providing reasonable access to burial options. In its written response, VA stated that we recommended NCA use census tract rather than county-level data. However, that is not what we recommended. As we stated in this report, comparing estimates of unserved veterans based on current census tract data with estimates based on current county-level data would provide a useful supplement to NCA’s current reliance on long-term projected county-level population data. Specifically, NCA would be better positioned to identify those areas of the country that will have the most significant unserved veteran populations and refine its current plans or develop new ones, as it deems appropriate. We are sending copies of this report to interested congressional committees and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. In addition, the report is available at no charge on the GAO website at http://www.gao.gov. If you or your staff have any questions about this report, please contact me at (202) 512-9627 or maurerd@gao.gov. Contact points for our Offices of Congressional Relations and Public Affairs may be found on the last page of this report. GAO staff members who made key contributions to this report are listed in appendix III. We compared NCA’s cost-estimating guidance with the 12 steps identified in the GAO Cost Estimating and Assessment Guide: Best Practices for Developing and Managing Capital Program Costs (Cost Guide). We found that NCA’s cost-estimating guidance on preparing cost estimates for cemetery construction projects—specifically Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) Manual for Preparation of Cost Estimates & Related Documents for VA Facilities (Manual), VA’s Architect/Engineer Submission Requirements for National Cemetery Projects, Program Guide 18-15 Volume D (Guide), and NCA’s Construction Program Conceptual Estimate Worksheet (Worksheet)—does not fully incorporate these 12 steps, as shown in table 3. The guidance incorporates some of the 12 steps to some degree, but not others, raising the possibility of unreliable cost estimates for NCA’s urban and rural initiatives. Specifically, NCA’s guidance on preparing cost estimates: fully or substantially met five of the 12 steps, partially met four of the 12 steps, and minimally met or did not meet three of the 12 steps. Diana Maurer, (202) 512-9627 or maurerd@gao.gov. In addition to the contact named above, Brian Lepore, Director (Retired); Maria Storts, Assistant Director; Pamela Nicole Harris, Analyst-in-Charge; Brian Bothwell, Jennifer Echard, Alexandra Gonzalez, Jason Lee, Amie Lesser, Serena Lo, John Mingus, Brenda Mittelbuscher, Maria Staunton, Frank Todisco, Cheryl Weissman, and John Wren made significant contributions to this report.