Passage 1:
Coca-Cola FEMSA
Coca-Cola FEMSA, S.A.B. de C.V., known as Coca-Cola FEMSA or KOF, is a Mexican multinational beverage company headquartered in Mexico City, Mexico. It is a subsidiary of FEMSA which owns 47.8% of its stock, with 27.8% held by wholly owned subsidiaries of The Coca-Cola Company and the remaining 25% listed publicly on the Mexican Stock Exchange (since 1993) and the New York Stock Exchange (since 1998). It is the largest franchise Coca-Cola bottler in the world, the company has operations in Latin America, although its largest and most profitable market is in Mexico.

History
Coca-Cola FEMSA began as a joint venture with The Coca-Cola Company in 1991 with FEMSA initially owning 51% of the stock. It started expanding its international operations in 2003 when it acquired Panamerican Beverages (Panamco), another Mexican Coca-Cola bottler with operations in Central America, Colombia, Venezuela, and Brazil. It later acquired additional bottling companies in Brazil (its second largest market) as well as the main Coca-Cola bottler in the Philippines in 2013, until 2018 when the company was then renamed to Coca-Cola Beverages Philippines.In 2007, Coca-Cola FEMSA acquired Jugos del Valle in a joint venture with The Coca-Cola Company. In June 2008, Coca-Cola FEMSA acquired Refrigerantes Minas Gerais.In 2011, the company merged Grupo Tampico and Corporación Los Angeles. Later that same year, Coca-Cola FEMSA acquired Grupo Industrias Lacteas in a joint venture with The Coca-Cola Company.Coca-Cola FEMSA merged beverage operations with Grupo Fomento Queretano in 2012. In 2013, the company merged more bottling operations with Grupo Yoli as well as acquiring Brazilian companies Companhia Fluminense de Refrigerantes and Industria Brasileira de Bebidas.In 2015, Coca-Cola FEMSA opened two $500 million bottling plants in Itabirito, Brazil, and Tocancipa, Colombia. The company completed its $1 billion acquisition of VONPAR in Brazil in 2016. Coca-Cola and Coca-Cola FEMSA also bought the AdeS brand from Unilever in a joint venture that same year.In 2018, Coca-Cola FEMSA acquired Guatemalan bottlers ABASA and Los Volcanes as well as MONRESA in Uruguay.

See also
List of companies traded on the Bolsa Mexicana de Valores
List of companies of Mexico
Economy of Mexico
Passage 2:
Cornelio Velásquez
Cornelio H. Velásquez (born September 28, 1968, in Panama City, Panama) is a jockey in American Thoroughbred horse racing. He was introduced to horse racing at age fifteen by trainer Carlos Salazar Guardia in his native Panama and enrolled in the national jockey school. In his first year of racing he was his country's top apprentice jockey and was the leading rider again in 1994 and 1995.
In 1996 Cornelio Velasquez emigrated to the United States to race at Elmont, New York's Belmont Park. During the ensuing ten years he competed at meets at tracks in Kentucky and Florida, winning several riding titles. His big break came in 2003 when he won his first Breeders' Cup on Cajun Beat in the Breeders' Cup Sprint. A two-time winner of Breeders' Cup races, in 2005 Velasquez rode Closing Argument to a second-place finish in the Kentucky Derby and in 2007 is scheduled to compete on the well-regarded colt, Nobiz Like Shobiz.
Passage 3:
The Coca-Cola Company
The Coca-Cola Company is an American multinational corporation founded in 1892, best known as the producer of Coca-Cola. The drink industry company also manufactures, sells, and markets other non-alcoholic beverage concentrates and syrups, and alcoholic beverages. The company's stock is listed on the NYSE and is part of the DJIA and the S&P 500 and S&P 100 indexes.
The soft drink was developed in 1886 by pharmacist John Stith Pemberton. At the time it was introduced, the product contained cocaine from coca leaves and caffeine from kola nuts which together acted as a stimulant. The coca and the kola are the source of the product name, and led to Coca-Cola's promotion as a "healthy tonic". Pemberton had been severely wounded in the American Civil War, and had become addicted to the pain medication morphine. He developed the beverage as a patent medicine in an effort to control his addiction.
In 1889, the formula and brand were sold for $2,300 (roughly $71,000 in 2022) to Asa Griggs Candler, who incorporated the Coca-Cola Company in Atlanta in 1892. The company has operated a franchised distribution system since 1889. The company largely produces syrup concentrate, which is then sold to various bottlers throughout the world who hold exclusive territories. The company owns its anchor bottler in North America, Coca-Cola Refreshments.

History
In July 1886, pharmacist John Stith Pemberton from Columbus, Georgia invented the original Coca-Cola drink, which was advertised as helpful in the relief of headache, to be placed on sale primarily in drugstores as a medicinal beverage. Pemberton had made many mixing experiments and reached his goal during the month of May, but the new product was as yet unnamed and uncarbonated. Pemberton's bookkeeper, Frank Mason Robinson, is credited with naming the product and creating its logo. Robinson chose the name Coca-Cola because of its two main ingredients (coca leaves and kola nuts) and because it is an alliteration. John Pemberton had taken a break and left Robinson to make, promote, and sell Coca-Cola on his own. Robinson promoted the drink with the limited budget that he had, and succeeded.American businessman Asa Griggs Candler purchased the Coca-Cola formula and brand, forming the Coca-Cola Company in Atlanta in 1892. By 1895, Coca-Cola was being sold nationwide. In 1919, the company was sold to Ernest Woodruff's Trust Company of Georgia.Coca-Cola's first ad read "Coca Cola. Delicious! Refreshing! Exhilarating! Invigorating!" Candler was one of the first businessmen to use merchandising in his advertising strategy. As of 1948, Coca-Cola had claimed about 60% of its market share. By 1984, the Coca-Cola Company's market share decreased to 21.8% due to new competitors.

Acquisitions
Coca-Cola acquired Minute Maid in 1960 for an undisclosed amount. In 1982, it acquired the movie studio Columbia Pictures for $692 million. Coca-Cola then launched a series of entertainment takeovers, namely Merv Griffin Enterprises and Embassy Communications in the mid-1980s, forming the Entertainment Business Sector, which would later merge with Tri-Star Pictures to start out Columbia Pictures Entertainment, with CPE holding a stake in the company. Coca-Cola sold Columbia to Sony for $3 billion in 1989. In 1986, Coke sold off two assets, namely Presto Products and Winker-Flexible Products to an investment group led by E.O. Gaylord for $38 million.The company acquired the Indian cola brand Thums Up in 1993, and Barq's in 1995. In 1999, Coca-Cola purchased 50% of the shares of Inca Kola for $200 million, subsequently taking control of overseas marketing and production for the brand. In 2001, it acquired the Odwalla brand of fruit juices, smoothies, and bars for $181 million. It announced Odwalla's discontinuation in 2020. In 2007, it acquired Fuze Beverage from founder Lance Collins and Castanea Partners for an estimated $250 million.The company's 2009 bid to buy Chinese juice maker Huiyuan Juice Group ended when China rejected its $2.4 billion bid, on the grounds the resulting company would be a virtual monopoly. Nationalism was also thought to be a reason for aborting the deal.In 2011, it acquired the remaining stake in Honest Tea, having bought a 40% stake in 2008 for $43 million. In 2013, it finalized its purchase of ZICO, a coconut water company. In August 2014, it acquired a 16.7% (currently 19.36% due to stock buy backs) stake in Monster Beverage for $2.15 billion with an option to increase it to 25%, as part of a long-term strategic partnership that includes marketing and distribution alliance, and product line swap. In 2015, the company took a minority stake ownership in the cold pressed juice manufacturer, Suja Life LLC. In December 2016, it bought many of the former SABMiller's Coca-Cola operations. The Coca-Cola Company owns a 68.3% stake in Coca-Cola Bottlers Africa.  Coca-Cola Bottlers Africa's headquarters located in Port Elizabeth South Africa.
The Coca-Cola Company acquired a 40% stake in Chi Ltd on January 30, 2016. The Coca-Cola Company acquired the remaining 60% stake in Chi Ltd on January 30, 2019.
In 2017, the Coca-Cola Company acquired Mexican sparkling water brand Topo Chico.On August 31, 2018, it agreed to acquire Costa Coffee from Whitbread for £3.9bn. The acquisition closed on January 3, 2019. During August 2018, The Coca-Cola Company acquired Moxie for an undisclosed amount. On August 14, 2018, the Coca-Cola Company announced a minority interest in Body Armor. On September 19, 2018, the Coca-Cola Company acquired Organic & Raw Trading Co. Pty Ltd the manufacturer of MOJO Kombucha in Willunga, Australia.

Revenue and sales
According to the Coca-Cola Company's 2005 annual report, it had sold beverage products in more than 200 countries that year. The 2005 report further states that of the approximately 50 billion beverage servings of all types consumed worldwide, daily, beverages bearing the trademarks owned by or licensed to Coca-Cola account for more than 1.3 billion. Of these, beverages bearing the trademark "Coca-Cola" or "Coke" accounted for approximately 55% of the company's total gallon sales.In 2010, it was announced that Coca-Cola had become the first brand to top £1 billion in annual UK grocery sales. In 2017, Coca-Cola sales were down 11% from the year before due to consumer tastes shifting away from sugary drinks.

Stock
Since 1919, Coca-Cola has been a publicly traded company. Its stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "KO". One share of stock purchased in 1919 for $40, with all dividends reinvested, would have been worth $9.8 million in 2012, a 10.7% annual increase adjusted for inflation. A predecessor bank of SunTrust received $100,000 for underwriting Coca-Cola's 1919 public offering; the bank sold that stock for over $2 billion in 2012. In 1987, Coca-Cola once again became one of the 30 stocks which makes up the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which is commonly referenced as a proxy for stock market performance; it had previously been a Dow stock from 1932 to 1935. Coca-Cola has paid a dividend since 1920 and, as of 2019, had increased it each year for 57 years straight.

Staff and management
The following are key management as of March 2023 (excluding VP positions and regional leaders):

The following are all directors as of March 2023:

Bottlers
In general, the Coca-Cola Company and its subsidiaries only produce syrup concentrate, as well as sourcing beverage base including coffee beans, tea leaf, juices, etc., which is then sold to various bottlers throughout the world who hold a local Coca-Cola franchise. Coca-Cola bottlers, who hold territorially exclusive contracts with the company, produce the finished product in packages from the concentrate and beverage base, in combination with filtered water and sweeteners. The bottlers then sell, distribute, and merchandise the Coca-Cola product to retail stores, vending machines, restaurants, and food service distributors. Outside the United States, these bottlers also control the fountain business.Since the 1980s, the company has actively encouraged the consolidation of bottlers, with the company often owning a share of these "anchor bottlers."In January 2006, the company formed the Bottling Investments Group (BIG), by bringing company-owned bottling operations together to strategically invest in select bottling operations, temporarily taking them under Coca-Cola ownership, and utilizing the leadership and resources of the company. Also, the company has accelerated refranchising both company-owned bottlers and independent bottling partners to consolidate their operations and move away from the capital-intensive and low-margin business of bottling, with maintaining minor share ownership of these consolidated bottlers and secure the right to nominate directors and/or executives through shareholders agreement and/or capital and business alliance agreement.As a result of the refranchising and bottler consolidations, multi-national/large-scale bottlers and three U.S.-based bottlers now dominate the manufacturing and distribution of the company's products except the territories managed by BIG bottlers.
Multi-national/large-scale bottlers

Coca-Cola Europacific Partners PLC: Headquartered in the UK, operates 29 countries in Western Europe, Oceania, Indonesia, and Papua New Guinea. The company owns 19.36%.
Coca-Cola FEMSA: Headquartered in Mexico, operating in Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Panama, Colombia, Mexico, Uruguay, and Venezuela. The company owns 27.8%.
Arca Continental: Headquartered in Mexico, operating in Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Argentina, and the southwestern U.S. (Texas and parts of New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Arkansas). (Independent)
Embotelladora Andina (Coca-Cola Andina): Headquartered in Chile, operating in Argentine, Chile, Brazil, and Paraguay. The company owns 14.7% of series A common stock outstanding & 14.7% of series B common stock outstanding.
Coca-Cola HBC AG: Headquartered in Switzerland, operating 28 countries in Western, Central, and Eastern Europe, Russia, and Nigeria. The company owns 23.2%.
Coca-Cola Icecek: Headquartered in Turkey, operates in the Middle East and Central Asian Countries (Turkey, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Iraq, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, Jordan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Syria). The company owns 20.1%.
Swire Coca-Cola: Headquartered in Hong Kong, operates in 11 provinces and Shanghai municipality in China, Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Vietnam, Cambodia, and 13 states in the U.S.
COFCO Coca-Cola: Operates 19 provinces and municipalities in China, a joint venture between COFCO Corporation and The Coca-Cola Company with 35% ownership.
Coca-Cola Bottlers Japan Holdings: Headquartered and operates in Japan, covering ~90% of the volume sold in Japan. The company owns 18.88%.Bottlers headquartered and operated in the U.S.

Coca-Cola Bottling Co. Consolidated, based in Charlotte, North Carolina. the company owns 34.8% and is listed on NASDAQ.
Coca-Cola Beverages Northeast, based in Bedford, New Hampshire, and owned by Kirin Holdings.
Coca-Cola Bottling Company United,  based in Birmingham, Alabama (independent)
Coca-Cola Beverages Florida, based in Tampa, Florida, and is a certified Minority owned business.Company-owned bottling operation is now managed under BIG, which covers operations in Bangladesh, Cambodia, India, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Oman, Philippines, Singapore, and Sri Lanka as well as eastern African operation by Coca-Cola Beverages Africa in Port Elizabeth, South Africa. In 2021, the company announced its intention to list Coca-Cola Beverages Africa as a publicly traded company.  However, in June 2022 it announced that it was delaying this plan, pending an evaluation of macroeconomic conditions.

Consumer relations and civic involvement
After Martin Luther King Jr. won the 1964 Nobel Peace Prize, plans for an interracial celebratory dinner in still-segregated Atlanta were not initially well supported by the city's business elite until Coca-Cola intervened.
J. Paul Austin, the chairman and CEO of Coca-Cola, and Mayor Ivan Allen summoned key Atlanta business leaders to the Commerce Club's eighteenth-floor dining room, where Austin told them flatly, 'It is embarrassing for Coca-Cola to be located in a city that refuses to honor its Nobel Prize winner. We are an international business. The Coca-Cola Company does not need Atlanta. You all need to decide whether Atlanta needs the Coca-Cola Company.' Within two hours of the end of that meeting, every ticket to the dinner was sold.
Throughout 2012, Coca-Cola contributed $1,700,500 to a $46 million political campaign known as "The Coalition Against The Costly Food Labeling Proposition, sponsored by Farmers and Food Producers". This organization was set up to oppose a citizen's initiative, known as Proposition 37, demanding mandatory labeling of foods containing genetically modified ingredients.In 2012, Coca-Cola was listed as a partner of the (RED) campaign, together with other brands such as Nike, Girl, American Express, and Converse. The campaign's mission is to prevent the transmission of the HIV virus from mother to child by 2015 (the campaign's byline is "Fighting for an AIDS Free Generation").

Criticism
Since the early 2000s, the criticisms over the use of Coca-Cola products as well as the company itself, escalated with concerns over health effects, environmental issues, animal testing, economic business practices and employee issues. The Coca-Cola Company has been faced with multiple lawsuits concerning these various criticisms.

Plastic production and waste
The Coca-Cola Company produces over 3 million tonnes of plastic packaging each year including 110 billion plastic bottles.The company has been referenced as "the worst plastic polluter in the world" pumping out 200,000 plastic bottles a minute. Problems have also arose in places such as Samoa where Coca-Cola switched away from reusable glass bottles to one time use plastic bottles. Residents of Samoa have seen an increase in plastic pollution since this switch has been made. Alternatives to plastic such as aluminum have also been overlooked with Coca-Cola releasing a new plastic bottle slightly bigger than a can size.
The magazine Forbes has labeled Coca-Cola as the world's most polluting brand. The company's global chief executive stated that "Coca-Cola has no plans to reduce its use of plastic bottles" and opposes bottle bill legislation. as consumers prefer the plastic bottles that "reseal and are lightweight". They also contribute to plastic waste producing up to 3 million tons of plastic packaging a year including over 110 billion plastic bottles.In 2018, Coca-Cola pledged to use 50% recycled materials in its packaging and to recycle the equivalent of 100% of its packaging by 2030. That same year, the company started to sell reusable bottles in Brazil, which customers could return to the point of sale for a discount of subsequent purchases. The initiative was expanded to several other South American countries by 2022. In 2019, the company's Swedish branch marked the first to fully transition to recyclable bottles.

Energy usage of corn syrup manufacturing
Coca-Cola using high fructose corn syrup has a lower sustainability compared to producing sugary dinks with sugar cane. High fructose corn syrup is carbon intensive due to the substantial amounts of fossil fuels required to power heavy machinery. Turning corn into high fructose corn syrup is an energy intensive process requiring large amounts of carbon to be expended especially during corn growth. Burning fossil fuels releases CO2 and CH4 which is the main source of energy for producing high fructose corn syrup. The environmental impact of corn production can be attributed to three primary effects of field emissions, irrigation and grain decay.

Water usage
Coca-Cola has also been under fire for depleting water sources through their high water usages. Local villagers have testified that Coca-Cola's entry in Kaladera Rajasthan intensified lower water sources. Documents from the government's water ministry reveal water levels remained stable from 1995 until 2000, when the Coca-Cola was first operational. Water levels then dropped by almost ten meters during the next five years. Other communities in India that are located around Coca-Cola's bottling plants are experiencing water shortages as well as environmental damage taking heavy tolls on harvests as well as drying up wells.

Racial discrimination
In November 2000, Coca-Cola agreed to pay $192.5 million to settle a class action racial discrimination lawsuit and promised to change the way it manages, promotes, and treats minority employees in the US. In 2003, protesters at Coca-Cola's annual meeting claimed that black people remained underrepresented in top management at the company, were paid less than white employees, and fired more often. In 2004, Luke Visconti, a co-founder of DiversityInc, which rates companies on their diversity efforts, said: "Because of the settlement decree, Coca-Cola was forced to put in management practices that have put the company in the top 10 for diversity."In March 2012, 16 workers of color sued Coca-Cola, claiming they had to work in a “cesspool of racial discrimination.”In February 2021, recordings of an employee training course were leaked on social media. The course instructed employees to "be less white", which the course equated with being less "arrogant" and "oppressive."

Advertising
Coca-Cola advertising has "been among the most prolific in marketing history," with a notable and major impact on popular culture and society as a whole. The company in recent years has spent approximately an annual $4 billion globally to promote its drinks to the public; and spent approximately $4.24 billion on advertising in fiscal year 2019, the lion's share of which was spent to advertise Coca-Cola.Coca-Cola advertises through direct marketing, web-based media, social media, text messaging, and sales promotions. The company also markets via mobile marketing in text messages, e.g. viral marketing campaigns.Fan engagement spans 86 million globally across social media channels: online interaction, and social, cultural, or sporting events.In the retail setting, direct store beverage delivery trucks (mobile advertising) as well as point of sale coolers and vending machines have bright red logo blazoned branding. In terms of foodservice, Coca-Cola is a food pairing suggestion that is now ingrained as a food match, e.g., for popcorn, hamburgers, french fries, and hot dog combos.

Products and brands
As of 2020, the Coca-Cola Company offers more than 500 brands in over 200 countries. In September 2020, the company announced that it would cut more than half of its brands, as a result of the economic effects caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Non-food assets
Columbia Pictures
Coca-Cola bought Columbia Pictures in 1982, owing to the low monetary value of the studio. The film company was the first and only studio ever be owned by Coca-Cola. During its ownership of the studio, Columbia released many popular films including Ghostbusters, Stripes, The Karate Kid, and some others. However, two years after the critical and commercial failure of the 1987 film Ishtar, Columbia was spun-off and then sold to Tokyo-based Sony in 1989.

World of Coca-Cola
Coca-Cola operates a soft drink themed tourist attraction in Atlanta, Georgia; the World of Coca-Cola is a multi-storied exhibition. It features flavor sampling and a history museum, with locations in Las Vegas, Nevada, and Lake Buena Vista, Florida.

Brands
Other soft drinks
The Coca-Cola Company also produces a number of other soft drinks including Fanta (introduced circa 1941) and Sprite. Fanta's origins date back to World War II during a trade embargo against Germany on cola syrup, making it impossible to sell Coca-Cola in Germany. Max Keith, the head of Coca-Cola's German office during the war, decided to create a new product for the German market, made only from products available in Germany at the time, which they named Fanta. The drink proved to be a hit, and when Coke took over again after the war, it adopted the Fanta brand as well. Fanta was originally an orange-flavored soft drink that can come in plastic bottles or cans. It has become available in many different flavors now such as grape, peach, grapefruit, apple, pineapple, and strawberry.
In 1961, Coca-Cola introduced Sprite, a lemon-lime soft drink, another of the company's bestsellers and its response to 7 Up.
Tab was Coca-Cola's first attempt to develop a diet soft drink, using saccharin as a sugar substitute. Introduced in 1963, the product was sold until fall 2020, although its sales had dwindled since the introduction of Diet Coke.Coca-Cola South Africa also released Valpre Bottled "still" and "sparkling" water.
In 1969, the company released Simba, which was a take on Mountain Dew, and had packaging that was African desert-themed, replete with an African Lion as the symbol of the brand.  The tagline was "Simba – It Conquers the African Thirst."
Also in 1969, the company released a line of products under the name of Santiba, which was targeted for mixing cocktails and party usage, products including Quinine water and Ginger Ale.  Like the above-mentioned Simba, the Santiba line of products was short-lived in the marketplace.

BreakMate
No longer manufactured, the Coca-Cola BreakMate was a three-flavor dispenser introduced by Coca-Cola and Siemens in 1988. Intended for use in offices with five to fifty people, its refrigerated compartment held three individual one-litre plastic containers of soda syrup and a CO2 tank. Like a soda fountain, it mixed syrup in a 1:5 ratio with carbonated water. In North America, Coca-Cola discontinued spare BreakMate parts in 2007 and stopped distributing the syrup in 2010.

Healthy beverages
During the 1990s, the company responded to the growing consumer interest in healthy beverages by introducing several new non-carbonated beverage brands. These included Minute Maid Juices to Go, Powerade sports beverage, flavored tea Nestea (in a joint venture with Nestlé), Fruitopia fruit drink, and Dasani water, among others. In 2001, the Minute Maid division launched the Simply Orange brand of juices including orange juice. In 2016, Coca-Cola India introduced Vio to enter into the value-added dairy category. The product lays the foundation for Coca-Cola's new segment after carbonated beverages, water and juices.In 2004, perhaps in response to the burgeoning popularity of low-carbohydrate diets such as the Atkins diet, Coca-Cola announced its intention to develop and sell a low-carbohydrate alternative to Coke Classic, dubbed C2 Cola. C2 contains a mix of high fructose corn syrup, aspartame, sucralose, and Acesulfame potassium. C2 is designed to more closely emulate the taste of Coca-Cola Classic. Even with less than half of the food energy and carbohydrates of standard soft drinks, C2 is not a replacement for zero-calorie soft drinks such as Diet Coke. C2 went on sale in the U.S. on June 11, 2004, and in Canada in August 2004; it was replaced in 2013 by Coca-Cola Life.
Starting in 2009, the Coca-Cola Company invested in Innocent Drinks, first with a minor stake, increasing to 90% in the first quarter of 2013.It was in May 2014 when Finley, a sparkling fruit-flavored drink, was launched in France. It was launched in other countries later, including Belgium and Luxembourg in September 2014. Coca-Cola first started developing the drink in Belgium in 2001. As of 2014, the drink is targeted for adults, and is low in sugar with four flavors.

Best selling
Coca-Cola is the best-selling soft drink in most countries, and was recognized as the number one global brand in 2010. While the Middle East is one of the few regions in the world where Coca-Cola is not the number one soda drink, Coca-Cola nonetheless holds almost 25% market share (to Pepsi's 75%) and had double-digit growth in 2003. Similarly, in Scotland, where the locally produced Irn-Bru was once more popular, 2005 figures show that both Coca-Cola and Diet Coke now outsell Irn-Bru. In Peru, the native Inca Kola has been more popular than Coca-Cola, which prompted Coca-Cola to enter in negotiations with the soft drink's company and buy 50% of its stakes. In Japan, the best selling soft drink is not cola, as (canned) tea and coffee are more popular. As such, the Coca-Cola Company's best selling brand there is not Coca-Cola, but Georgia. In May 2016, the Coca-Cola Company temporarily halted production of its signature drink in Venezuela due to sugar shortages. Since then, the Coca-Cola Company has been using "minimum inventories of raw material" to make their signature drinks at two production plants in Venezuela.

Information
On July 6, 2006, a Coca-Cola employee and two other people were arrested and charged with trying to sell trade secret information to the soft drink maker's competitor PepsiCo for $1.5 million. The recipe for Coca-Cola, perhaps the company's most closely guarded secret, was never in jeopardy; instead, the information was related to a new beverage in development. Coca-Cola executives verified that the trade secret documents in question were genuine and proprietary to the company. At least one glass vial containing a sample of a new drink was offered for sale, court documents said. The conspiracy was revealed by PepsiCo, which notified authorities when it was approached by the conspirators.

Green tea
The company announced a new "negative calorie" green tea drink, Enviga, in 2006, along with trying coffee retail concepts Far Coast and Chaqwa.

Glaceau
On May 25, 2007, Coca-Cola announced it would purchase Glaceau, a maker of flavored vitamin-enhanced drinks (vitamin water), flavored waters, and Burn energy drinks, for $4.1 billion in cash.

Huiyuan Juice
On September 3, 2008, Coca-Cola announced its intention to make cash offers to purchase China Huiyuan Juice Group Limited (which had a 42% share of the Chinese pure fruit juice market) for US$2.4bn (HK$12.20 per share). China's ministry of commerce blocked the deal on March 18, 2009, arguing that the deal would hurt small local juice companies, could have pushed up juice market prices, and limited consumers' choices.

Coke Mini can
In October 2009, Coca-Cola revealed its new 90-calorie mini can that holds 7.5 fluid ounces. The mini can is often sold in 8 packs. Despite costing nearly 30 percent more per ounce, the mini cans have been met with positive sales figures.

Holiday can
In November 2011, Coca-Cola revealed a seasonal design for its regular Coke cans as part of a partnership with the World Wildlife Fund. However, it was withdrawn only a month after release due to consumer complaints about a similar look to the silver cans commonly used for Diet Coke. There were also complaints about deviating from traditional red as the color of Coca-Cola cans previously.

Stake in Monster Beverage
It was announced on August 14, 2014, that the Coca-Cola Company was making a cash payment of $2.15 billion for a 16.7 percent stake in Monster Beverage Corp to expand its market for energy drinks, with Coke to transfer ownership in Full Throttle and Burn to Monster and Monster to transfer its ownership in Hansen's Natural Sodas, Peace Iced Tea,  and Blue Sky Soda to the Coca-Cola Company. Muhtar Kent, Coke's former chief executive officer, stated that the company has the option to increase its stake to 25 percent but could not exceed that percentage in the next four years.

Alcoholic beverages
In 2021, the Coca-Cola Co used its Mexican sparkling mineral water brand Topo Chico to launch a range of vegan friendly alcoholic hard seltzers in the United Kingdom and in the United States.

Front groups
As part of its corporate propaganda campaign to deflect public attention away from the harmful health effects of its sugary drinks, the Coca-Cola Company has funded front organizations. The company funded creation of the front organization the Global Energy Balance Network (GEBN) to address the growing evidence that the company's products are a leading cause of the epidemic of childhood obesity in the United States and the growing number of Americans, including children, with type 2 diabetes. GEBN designed its own studies to arrive at conclusions set in advance and cherry picked data to support its corporate public relations agenda. After an August 2015 investigative report exposed the GEBN as a Coca-Cola Company front organization, GEBN was shut down.Three years after the shutdown of GEBN, the company, together with several other junk food giants, was revealed to be behind an initiative in China called "Happy 10 Minutes," funded through a group called the International Life Sciences Institute (ILSI). The aim of the initiative was to address decades of research on diet-related diseases, such as Type 2 diabetes and hypertension, by promoting physical exercise to the population but avoiding discussion of the link between such diseases and junk foods, including sugary drinks. ILSI through the 1980s and 1990s had been promoting the tobacco industry's agenda in Europe and the United States.

Sponsorship
Coca-Cola's advertising expenses accounted for US$3.256 billion in 2011.

Sports
Coca-Cola sponsored the English Football League from the beginning of the 2004–05 season (beginning August 2004) to the start of 2010–11 season, when the Football League replaced it with NPower. Along with this, Coca-Cola sponsored the Coca-Cola Football Camp, that took place in Pretoria, South Africa during the 2010 FIFA World Cup.Other major sponsorships include the AFL, NHRA, NASCAR, the PGA Tour, NCAA Championships, the Olympic Games, the NRL, the FIFA World Cups, Premier League and the UEFA European Championships. The company partnered with Panini to produce the first virtual sticker album for the 2006 FIFA World Cup, and they have collaborated for every World Cup since. Each fall, Coca-Cola is the sponsor of the TOUR Championship by Coca-Cola held at the East Lake Golf Club in Atlanta, Georgia. The Tour Championship is the season ending tournament of the PGA Tour. In the Philippines, it has a team in the Philippine Basketball Association, the Powerade Tigers.In 2017, Major League Baseball signed a multi-year deal with Coca-Cola to be the official soft drink, replacing Pepsi. Nineteen MLB teams (Los Angeles Angels, Houston Astros, Toronto Blue Jays, Atlanta Braves, St. Louis Cardinals, Los Angeles Dodgers, San Francisco Giants, Seattle Mariners, New York Mets, Washington Nationals, San Diego Padres, Philadelphia Phillies, Pittsburgh Pirates, Texas Rangers, Tampa Bay Rays, Cincinnati Reds, Boston Red Sox, Colorado Rockies and Chicago White Sox ) have Coca-Cola products sold in their ballparks.
Since the season of 2019 is the title sponsor of the Uzbekistan Super League in football, and this league is officially called Coca-Cola Uzbekistan Super League.
Coca-Cola has also sponsored the Overwatch league since season two. They also sponsor all major Overwatch tournaments such as the world cup
. In February 2020, Coca-Cola became the title sponsor for the eNASCAR iRacing series. In October 2018, Coca-Cola started sponsoring the Formula 1 team McLaren with several 1 year deals being signed since then.

Television
The company sponsored the popular Fox singing-competition series American Idol from 2002 until 2014.Coca-Cola was a sponsor of the nightly talk show on PBS, Charlie Rose in the US.Coca-Cola is also an executive producer of Coke Studio (Pakistan). It was a franchising that started in Brazil, broadcast by MTV Brasil and there are various adaptations of Coke Studio such as Coke Studio (India), Coke Studio Bangla and Coke Studio (Africa).

Theme parks
While not necessarily having naming rights to anything in all locations, the company does sponsor and provide beverages in many theme parks, usually in an exclusive capacity. This includes the Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, Merlin Entertainment, Universal Destinations & Experiences, Six Flags, Cedar Fair, and SeaWorld Entertainment which are six of the nine largest theme park operators worldwide (it is unknown whether OCT Parks China, the Chimelong Group, or Fantawild, the fourth, seventh, and eighth largest theme park operators respectively, use Coca-Cola).The company also directly sponsors, with naming rights, the Coca-Cola London Eye and formerly, the Coca-Cola Orlando Eye.The company also operates "Coca-Cola" visitor centers in Israel, Belgium and Turkey.

See also
List of assets owned by the Coca-Cola Company
Stepan Company – produces coca leaf extract
Passage 4:
FEMSA
Fomento Económico Mexicano, S.A.B. de C.V., doing business as FEMSA, is a Mexican multinational beverage and retail company headquartered in Monterrey, Mexico. It operates the largest independent Coca-Cola bottling group in the world and the largest convenience store chain in Mexico. It is also  shareholder of Heineken N.V.
FEMSA reported revenues of US$26.9 billion for 2019, making it the fifth largest company of Mexico. It has operations in Latin America mainly through bottling plants, convenience stores, drugstores, fuel stations, and third-party logistic services, and in the United States, where it participates in the jan-san distribution industry. It is well known in Mexico for its convenience store chain Oxxo, it previously owned Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma Brewery (exchanged in 2010 for a 20% stake in Heineken N.V.), and for being the owner of the C.F. Monterrey, a Mexican First-Division football team.
FEMSA has been listed  on the Mexican Stock Exchange since 1978 and on the NYSE through ADRs since 1998. It is a constituent of the IPC, the main benchmark index of the Mexican Stock Exchange, and of the S&P Latin America 40, which includes leading, blue chip companies from Latin America.

History
Cuauhtémoc brewery was established in 1890.In 1985, Cuauhtémoc merged with Moctezuma to form Cervecería Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma. FEMSA was established from Grupo Visa in 1988.In 1993, Coca-Cola purchased a 30 percent stake in FEMSA, creating the Coca-Cola FEMSA division.In January 2006, FEMSA Cerveza acquired Kaiser Cervejarias from Molson Coors Brewing Co.On December 19, 2006, Coca-Cola FEMSA announced its attempt to buy out Mexican juice producer Jugos del Valle. It was acquired in 2007.
On December 20, 2007, Cascade Investments LLC, whose main partner is Bill Gates, announced it would invest $390 million in FEMSA. The Reuters news agency stated that after this investment, "Gates owns a 1.2 percent stake in Femsa's Series B shares, a 5 percent stake in Series D-B shares, and a 5 percent stake in Series D-L shares." This investment caused the Bill and Melinda Gates' foundation to become the institutional holder possessing the most shares of FEMSA.On January 11, 2010, the Dutch brewing company Heineken International purchased FEMSA Cerveza (Cervecería Cuauhtémoc Moctezuma), the beer operations of FEMSA, in a stock swap that left FEMSA a 20% owner in the Heineken.In 2011, Coca-Cola FEMSA acquired  regional Mexican Coke bottler Grupo Cimsa for 11 billion MXN (US$838 million).In July 2012, Coca-Cola FEMSA announced that it had purchased Lácteos Santa Clara, one of the largest dairy bottlers in Mexico.In August 2015, FEMSA, through its subsidiary FEMSA Comercio entered the drugstore business in South America by acquiring a majority interest in Socofar, a leading South American drugstore operator based in Santiago, Chile.In March 2017, FEMSA's Imbera division announced their shift to hydrocarbons in manufacturing their Coke beverage coolers. The company enacted the manufacturing shift in order to meet higher efficiency standards. In October 2017, FEMSA Logistica rebranded to Solistica.In early 2019, FEMSA, through its subsidiary FEMSA Comercio, acquired Ecuadorean company Corporacion GPF. In September 2019, FEMSA signed a deal to acquire a minority stake in Jetro Restaurant Depot. In November 2019, FEMSA Logistics subsidiary Solistica completed their acquisition of Brazilian company AGV. Also in November 2019, FEMSA Comercio closed the acquisition of a 50 percent stake in Raizen Conveniencias.In March 2020, FEMSA acquired a majority stake in WAXIE Sanitary Supply and North American Corporation, to form a new platform within the Jan-San, Packaging and Specialized distribution industry in the United States.

Divisions
FEMSA Comercio
Proximity division
FEMSA Comercio operates OXXO, the leading convenience store chain in Mexico and a growing portfolio of other small-format retail chains in Latin America.OXXO, a subsidiary of FEMSA, was established in 1978. In 2010, OXXO, a subsidiary of FEMSA Comercio, partnered with Heineken Mexico. OXXO's ten-year agreement with Heineken Mexico was renegotiated in early 2019.In 2013 the FEMSA group acquired an 80% holding in the Mexican arm of restaurant chain Gorditas Doña Tota for US$120 million, their interest being limited to operations within Mexico. Operations within the United States remain in the hands of the original business owners. The company operates as a subsidiary of Femsa Comercio S.A. de C.V. As of 2017 the company claims more than 200 restaurants in 60 Mexican cities and towns. Gorditas Doña Tota started in 1952 when Carlota Murillo of Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas began selling gorditas on the street, from a cart on the sidewalk.

Health division
In November 2012, FEMSA announced it had purchased a 75 percent controlling stake in convenience store Farmacias Yza. In May 2013, FEMSA announced the acquisition of another convenience store, Farmacias FM Moderna.In September 2015, FEMSA Comercio acquired a controlling stake in SOCOFAR. In December 2015, FEMSA, through FEMSA Comercio, acquired SOCOFAR, a Chilean drugstore company operating the Cruz Verde drugstore network in Chile and Colombia. SOCOFAR was founded in the 1980s and is the largest drugstore chain in Chile, a strong presence in Colombia.In September 2018, FEMSA, through FEMSA Comercio, announced the acquisition of Ecuadorian drugstore chains Fybeca and SanaSana.In May 2019, FEMSA Comercio completed its acquisition of Fybeca. FEMSA Comercio announced in December 2019 plans to acquire the remaining 40 percent minority stake of SOCOFAR. FEMSA acquired the remaining stake in SOCOFAR in January 2020.

Fuel division
OXXO Gas is an affiliate of OXXO, and as of 2020 operates approximately 550 stations in 17 Mexican states.

Coca-Cola FEMSA
FEMSA owns 47.9% of the world's largest bottler of Coca-Cola by volume, Coca-Cola FEMSA, S.A. de C.V. (NYSE: KOF), which operates in ten countries covering the metropolitan area of Mexico City, southeast Mexico, Central America, South America, and the Philippines.
Coca-Cola FEMSA is the anchor bottler of Coca-Cola and its related soft drink products in much of Latin America.  The company is an important part of the Coca-Cola System.  During 2019, the company produced and sold 11.1% of Coca-Cola's volume worldwide.  This makes it the largest Coca-Cola bottler in the world.The company is owned 47.9% by FEMSA, 28.1% by The Coca-Cola Company and the remaining interest trades on the New York Stock Exchange and the Mexico City Stock Exchange.  The company is headquartered in Monterrey.
The company is the bottler of Coca-Cola in half of Mexico (including Mexico City, Oaxaca, Tabasco, Guanajuato, Querétaro, Veracruz, Puebla and Michoacan) the Buenos Aires region of Argentina, São Paulo and other areas of Brazil, greater Guatemala City, Guatemala, most of Colombia, and all of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama, Venezuela and the Philippines (until 2018).
The company also distributes beer and bottled water in some of its territories.
On 29 June 2011, was announced that FEMSA will merge to the bottling division of Grupo Tampico, agreeing to pay 9.3 billion  pesos (790 million  dollars) in stock for the Coke bottling operations of Grupo Tampico. In September 2011, Coca-Cola FEMSA acquired Grupo Cimsa, a Coke bottler in Morelos, Mexico, Guerrero and Michoacan.

FEMSA Negocios Estratégicos
FEMSA Negocios Estratégicos (formerly known as FEMSA Insumos Estratégicos) provides logistics, point-of-sale refrigeration solutions and plastics solutions to FEMSA's business units and third-party clients. It is subsequently divided into:

Solistica
Solistica is a third-party logistics provider for a number of industries, including pharmaceuticals, automotive, technology, and consumer goods. Solistica manages primary distribution for Coca-Cola FEMSA and Heineken and secondary distribution for FEMSA Comercio's Proximity Division.

Imbera
Imbera manufactures equipment for the soft drink, beer and food service industries, including coolers, food processing, storage and weighing equipment. Imbera has manufacturing plants in Mexico, Colombia, and Brazil.

Plásticos Técnicos Mexicanos (PTM)
PTM provides solutions and develops "plastic transformation projects" tailored to FEMSA Enterprises and third-party clients in terms of materials handling, automobiles, and food/beverages. Their capacity includes the different plastic manufacturing processes: blowing, injecting, heat forming, and extrusion.

See also
Beer in Mexico
Heineken International
Mexican Coke, pertaining to the importation of Mexican Coca-Cola products containing cane sugar into other North American markets, including those of FEMSA
List of companies traded on the Bolsa Mexicana de Valores
List of Mexican companies
Economy of Mexico
Passage 5:
Alle tiders kupp
Alle tiders kupp is a 1964 Norwegian comedy film directed by Øyvind Vennerød, starring Rolf Just Nilsen, Arne Bang-Hansen, Henki Kolstad and Inger Marie Andersen. Three men rob an outlet of the government owned alcoholic beverage retailer Vinmonopolet. They then run into problems getting rid of the 50,000 bottles of liquor they have stolen.

External links
Alle tiders kupp at IMDb
Alle tiders kupp at Filmweb.no (Norwegian)
Passage 6:
Carlos Salazar Lomelín
Carlos Salazar Lomelín (born April 1951) is a Mexican businessman who serves as chief executive officer of Coca-Cola FEMSA since 1 January 2000.

Early life
Salazar graduated with a bachelor's degree in Economics (1973) and an MBA (1989) from the Monterrey Institute of Technology (ITESM).  He also undertook executive courses in Business Administration and Economic Development at Instituto di Studi per lo Sviluppo Economico in Naples, and at IPADE, in Mexico City.

Career
During his studies in Italy he interned at Cassa di Risparmio delle Provincie Lombarde.Salazar joined Femsa in 1973 and rose through the ranks as director-general of Grafo Regia, commercial planning officer of Femsa and chief executive officer of Femsa Cerveza. On 1 January 2000 he was appointed chief executive officer of Coca-Cola Femsa.Aside from his business activities, Salazar has lectured in Economics at the Monterrey Institute of Technology, where he also served as president of the corporate advisory board of EGADE Business School (2009-2010).In June 2011 it was rumored that he would succeed Rafael Rangel Sostmann as rector of that university.
Passage 7:
Carlos Salazar (actor)
Rustico Roldan (October 26, 1931 – April 7, 2022), professionally known as Carlos Salazar  was a Filipino actor and a matinee idol in the 1950s. A contemporary of the likes of Delia Razon, Rosa Rosal, Jaime Dela Rosa and Nestor de Villa, Roldan took up the screen name of Carlos Salazar and began his career with LVN Pictures, and made several hit movies. After making 15 films for the said studio, Salazar made one film under Champion Pictures entitled Objective: Patayin si Magsaysay, and one film under Larry Santiago Production for Student Canteen.
His first film under Sampaguita Pictures was Madaling Araw, an Amalia Fuentes and Juancho Gutierrez movie, followed by Alaalang Banal ("Sacred Memory"), which starred Gloria Romero.
Then he made another film with Lolita Rodriguez and Luis Gonzales under the title of Talipandas ("Traitor").

Later career
Salazar remained active as a film actor up to mid-1990s.
He also produced and directed films for his brother-in-law, action star Eddie Fernandez.  Salazar's last television appearance was on Be Careful with My Heart in 2014.

Personal life
Salazar was married to model Carmen "Menchu" Fernandez until her death in 2013.  They had seven children.  He died peacefully on April 7, 2022 at home in Quezon City.

Filmography
1952 – Tia Loleng
1952 – Digmaan ng Damdamin
1953 – Philippine Navy
1953 – Ganyan Lang ang Buhay
1953 – Dalagang Nayon
1954 – Abarinding
1954 – Mabangong Kandungan
1954 – Hiram Na Kasintahan
1955 – Tagapagmana
1955 – Pasikat
1955 – Ang Ibong Adarna
1955 – Karnabal
1955 – Salamangkero
1956 – May Araw Ka Rin
1956 – Abandonado
1957 – Objective: Patayin si Magsaysay
1957 – Student Canteen
1958 – Madaling Araw
1958 – Alaalang Banal
1958 – Talipandas
1988 – Ang Anino ni Asedillo
Passage 8:
Juan Carlos Salazar
Juan Carlos Salazar may refer to:

Juan Carlos Salazar (musician), Venezuelan singer and cuatro player
Juan Carlos Salazar Gómez, secretary-general of the International Civil Aviation Organization
Passage 9:
Carlos Salazar Herrera
Carlos Salazar Herrera (1906–1980) is a Costa Rican writer, journalist, engraver and sculptor. He was born in San José, Costa Rica, where he attended primary and secondary school. He wrote his first short story at the age of 9, named "The Three Captains of a Ship". At the age of 14, he received his first award for an essay entitled "El café". In 1928 he participated in a contest in which he presented his work about renewing Costa Rican art, and in the same year, he received the second place award for his story "La Piedra de Toxil" in a literary contest organized by Editorial de Costa Rica..
In 1930 he started working at the Repertorio Americano where he published around 20 short stories. In 1934 he began doing wood etchings on caboa and other kinds of wood. In 1935 he got another reward due to the sculpture he made(el motivo or the motive).
Passage 10:
Vinmonopolet
Vinmonopolet (English: The Wine Monopoly), symbolized by Ⓥ and colloquially shortened to Polet, is a government-owned alcoholic beverage retailer and the only company allowed to sell beverages containing an alcohol content higher than 4.75% in Norway.As the arm of the Norwegian government policy to limit the citizens' consumption of alcohol, primarily by means of high cost and limited access, the primary goal of Vinmonopolet is to responsibly perform the distribution of alcoholic goods while limiting the motive of private economic profit from the alcohol industry. Equally significant is the social responsibility of Vinmonopolet, to prevent the sale of alcohol to minors and visibly inebriated customers.
Outlets, located across the country from cities to smaller communities, typically close business earlier than other shops, typically weekdays at 6 pm and Saturdays at 4 pm. In 2020 Vinmonopolet sold 115 million litres (30 million US gallons) of beverages.

Foundation
The institution was founded in 1922 as a government-owned company as the result of trade negotiations with wine exporters, mainly in France. The ban on alcohol was lifted, and sale was allowed through outlets run by Vinmonopolet.Since 1939 the state, initially through the Norwegian Ministry of Finance and later the Norwegian Ministry of Health and Care Services, has been the sole owner, buying out the private shareholders while remaining a stock company.The company's import and production activities ceased in 1996 when the EFTA ruled that the monopoly was in violation of the EEA agreement, the company divided into the created company entity Arcus which continued all production, import and distribution activity of spirits, leaving Vinmonopolet as a sole retail monopoly.In 1999 the format of the outlets was restructured, making nearly all stores self service from the previous format of sales over the counter, and internet sales began in 2002.

Special shops
Initially, two Vinmonopolet outlets were launched in 2005–06 as "special stores" category A, located in Oslo (Briskeby, relocated to Vika in March 2010) and Bergen (Valkendorfsgaten), and a branch of smaller category B stores in were added during 2012–13 in Oslo west, Sandnes, Hamar, Sandefjord and Trondheim. In February 2014 the Bergen Valkendorfsgaten store was adjusted to category B on a par with the other five limited special stores, leaving Oslo Vika the sole category A special store, and the sale of fine wine and beer in Sandnes was divided between two outlets, Sentrum and Kvadrat. In January 2015 the flagship specialty store moved its location from Vika to Aker Brygge.The special stores arrange major launches of new products on six occasions annually, to supplement a special selection (of approximately 750 products at category A level) that is not available in the ordinary product list, of wines, fortified wines or beers, described to be "either innovative, of limited availability or of an exceptionally high quality". Each launch carries a theme, and while there may be changes from year to year, regular fixtures are the launch of wines from Bordeaux in December, wines from Burgundy in February, wines from Germany in April, Champagne and Chablis in May, and beer and U.S. wines in October. Smaller groups of products that fall outside the launch themes may appear at any other time during the year. As with all wine purchases in the normal outlets, Vinmonopolet guarantees the provenance of these uncommon wines, and the customer retains the regular right to return faulty wine for the money back within five years of purchase.Though the available quantities of the special release wines can be very limited, some wines so sparse they entail minimal purchasing quotas in order to reach a wider public, prices may be as low as ⅓ or ¼ of world market value. As a result of considerable enthusiasm surrounding these product launches, the trends of customer behaviour has come under criticism for sinking to an uncivilised level.

Vinmonopolet is not established on Svalbard. Instead the government can license private alcohol shops, of which there is only one, "Nordpolet" in Longyearbyen. In addition mining companies can sell alcohol to employees. There are monthly sales quotas on Svalbard. The taxes and therefore prices are much lower on Svalbard than mainland Norway.

Wine auctions
In December 2008, Vinmonopolet announced plans to implement a system of arranging auctions of second-hand wine, similar to the model in use by Swedish Systembolaget. Under Norwegian law, it was illegal to sell alcohol by auction, until a resolution by Stortinget changed this law in April 2011, effective from 1 January 2012. While Vinmonopolet is to draw no profit from these activities, the process of selecting a collaborating auction house resulted in the tender eventually awarded to the auction house Blomqvist in Oslo, with the first wine auction of Norway held on 25 November 2013, and simultaneously an expanded Internet auction was arranged due to the unexpected scale of interest.

Consumer relations
In a 2008 survey by Norsk Kundebarometer, customers of the monopoly were 81.5% satisfied with the company, ranking it 4th in Norway, a figure that rose to 88% in 2009. There were critical voices such as Tom Marthinsen, then wine critic of Dagens Næringsliv, that questioned the institution's selection process of allowing a small self-recruited group, termed "the taste bureaucracy", make the wine buying decisions on behalf of the entire Norwegian people.Surveys from the mid 90s, indicated a majority of the Norwegian population were in support of dissolving the monopoly arrangement, and allowing for the sale of wine by the private sector. Since the restructuring of 1996, the consumer satisfaction has increased. A 2013 TNS Gallup poll showed that 74% of the population wanted to keep the monopoly while 22% wanted to dissolve it.Economists have praised Vinmonopolet for being a well-working monopoly that offers good customer service.Robert Lie, then sommelier of Bagatelle, has stated, "I am among the supporters. In recent years Vinmonopolet has had great impact on the wine interest of the average Norwegian. To my knowledge there are no wine stores in the world with an equal selection. There are also fairly good prices for more expensive wines. For highly coveted wines one must pay much more in London." Torkjell Berulfsen, presenter of considerable TV programming with focus on alcoholic goods, has stated, "These days I praise Vimonopolet into the clouds. I bless it! I don't dare imagine some zitty, unmotivated 25-year-old 'red wine supervisor' at Rimi!"Arne Ronold MW has pointed to the formats of UK and Denmark as successful alternatives that offer good selections in supermarkets and specialty stores, while stating that the present situation offers a wide selection for consumers in certain areas but with considerably more limited options for some other areas, and while more costly wines may be less expensive in the Vinmonopolet format, this is a "positive side-effect of a market that doesn't work, being of little benefit to the average consumer". He acknowledges "a near-revolution in that at present there are more than 10,000 products available, which is wonderful", adding, "I have been among the most ardent critics but have mildened somewhat. I am adequately satisfied with Vinmonopolet as it is now. But they still have some way to go concerning aged wine and the second hand market. In this, access is poor." Ronold's publication Vinforum which 1986 founding was motivated by the perceived poor performance of Vinmonopolet, whose Italian wine selection then totalled 14 labels including reds, whites and sparkling. By 2010 the category had risen past 2,000 labels, leading co-founder Ola Dybvik to declare, "we are living in paradise", continuing in context that the Norwegian population is comparative to a New York suburb, "in terms of selection, the store has moved into the definitive world elite".

In a Dagens Næringsliv commentary, Tom Marthinsen also acknowledged the progress from the conditions of the 1990s, but was critical to the direction of applying new techniques from chain stores which led to standardization of the urban outlets, while contending that the rural stores have a "catastrophical selection", and these consumers from "the districts" would benefit from purchasing wine in their local food store. Marthinsen called upon the leadership to "set free the store buyers, reinstate the competitive element between the stores, in other words leave behind the chain store mentality and allow local creativity to flourish".The institution has not stayed clear of problems. In one instance in 2001, the published price list offered Château Latour at the incredibly priced NOK 555, where an estimate would normally be approximately NOK 2,600, causing the quickest three customers to order to buy up the entire inventory, with the intent to make a fast and considerable profit. The explanation was that the more modestly priced Château Latour à Pomerol had its name listing edited down for brevity.In 2010 Vinmonopolet offered more than 12,000 products, next to 2009 figures from comparative retailers such as Systembolaget which offered ca. 9,000 products, Alko of Finland with ca. 3,000 products available, or British Waitrose with ca. 1,500 products available. By the end of 2016, the range of products had reached near 17,000 items.

Corruption cases
In what is known as Dysthesaken (the Dysthe case) in 1930 exposed flaws in the goods acquisition procedures of Vinmonopolet, and as a consequence changes were made to the procedures. The leadership were sentenced for combining company and personal interests, and the influence and power of individuals in purchasing decisions were reduced after the process. Following this, a law of 19 July 1931 (Vinmonopolloven, the wine monoploy law) came into effect.
Ekjordsaken, (the Ekjord case) uncovered in 2005, brought new allegations of corruption against employees and leadership of Vinmonopolet. A probe led by Erling Grimstad exposed that the importer firm Ekjord A/S over the course of several years had sponsored outlet leaders by arranging luxury dining and accommodations as well as other gifts in order to influence purchases and placement of their products within the stores. Membership in this exclusive group was symbolized by the gift of a tastevin. Several Vinmonopolet leaders admitted to having received wines and other perks, which led to reprimands of 9 individuals, two of whom were dismissed.The initiating factor came when  an employee who had been fired from Ekjord A/S, sued against wrongful dismissal. The scandal escalated as the media discovered the particulars of the lawsuit, with Lindin as the chief source of allegations that would result in wide consequences. During the trial the elaborate "grease culture" in the company Ekjord A/S was uncovered. Knut Grøholt withdrew from the position of CEO of Vinmonopolet later that year, and in August 2006 was replaced by Kai G. Henriksen.

Vinbladet
Having long planned to publish a magazine aimed at consumers as was already done by Systembolaget in Sweden, in 1988 Vinmonopolet launched Vinbladet ("The Wine Magazine" or "The Vine Leaf"), distributed to customers free of charge. The magazine's name had been used precisely 60 years previously for the internal publication which provided information to employees about the sold goods. The rationale was that as Vinmonopolet were in the business of selling culture, they wanted to do so with culture, making information available crucial.A professional editor was engaged, and the publication printed on glossy paper contained images of a commercial nature depicting the diverse nations' wine regions and wine production, and articles on various subjects connected to food, wine and spirits. The Norwegian temperance movement reacted negatively and responded with press declarations accusing Vinmonopolet of attempting to popularise alcohol use, rather than limit it. The criticism from the temperance movement also maintained that the alcohol in wine did not distinguish itself from the alcohol in hard spirits, that "fine dining" customs functioned as a gateway to alcohol problems, and that the cultural projects of Vinmonopolet could well lead to family tragedies, destroyed lives, fear and death.

Notable past products
Rødvin
When the German occupation forces withdrew from Norway in 1945, there remained behind 400,000 litres of Bordeaux wine which became the foundation of the generic "Rødvin" ("Red wine"), the best selling wine in Norway over several decades, which is accredited as a cornerstone in "cultivating Norwegian drinking culture". Nicknamed "Château Hasle" (from the location name of the Vinmonopolet headquarters) and  "Sekskroners" ("costing six kroner"), sales of the brand are estimated in excess of 120 million litres, it eventually ceased being the national top seller due to the arrival of inexpensive Chilean and Italian wines by 1998.The initial blends consisting of Bordeaux wines from the 1934 and 1937 vintages, along with simple German and Italian wine, were sold from 1 January 1946 for NOK total of 4.50, both Rødvin and Hvitvin (White wine), all sold out by 1947. As the successive imports of wine from Algeria, Tunisia and Chile marketed under other names failed to sell well, an initiative was made in 1949 to compose a new blended wine for the people, affordable and easily drinkable. Purchasing director Haakon Svensson was given a set budget and assigned to negotiate deals with wine producers, initially securing deals with winemakers from Le Midi, Valencia and Algeria, with an aim to produce a blended wine that could decrease the Norwegian people's vast consumption of liquor, at the time ten to one the ratio of the consumption of wine.On sale from 1 February 1950 at the total price of NOK 6 (NOK 4 + 50% tax), the price remained fixed until 1968, causing it to be widely known as "the six kroner wine". By 1970 it cost NOK 7, and by 1990 it had risen to NOK 43. Normally blended from 5 to 10 wines, from locations that later also included Cyprus and Turkey, Rødvin was in 1972 responsible for 40% of all wine sold in Norway, leading up to the peak of its popularity in the 1980s. In 1981 there was sold 3.8 million liter, while by 2000 Rødvin production had been transferred to Arcus and annual sales had decreased to 700,000 liters.In August 2014 it was announced that bottles of Rødvin would be removed from the standard Vinmonopolet shelf selection by the following October, following a run of 54 vintages, after this to be available by order under the altered name "Folkets Originale Rødvin" (the people's original red wine).

Golden Power
Golden Power was a Norwegian-produced sparkling fruit wine (not to be confused with an energy drink of the same name), made of 70% rhubarb, 20% apple and 10% grape juice, which was produced by Vingården (the Røed farm in Filtvet, in the Tofte area, in Hurum), associated with owner Frantz Michaelsen. The product was removed from Vinmonopolet selection in 2006.
Vingården was considered part of the local culture, and Golden Power deemed by some a rare, innovative Norwegian product. Traditions of winemaking were established in 1886, and Vingården came to have a production capacity of some 800,000 litres while the production process of Golden Power was claimed to last for four years. Near the end of its production, the company produced between 20,000 and 25,000 bottles annually.

See also
Alcohol monopoly