Passage 1:
Fitz and The Tantrums
Fitz and the Tantrums are an American indie pop and neo soul band from Los Angeles, California, that formed in 2008. The band consists of Michael Fitzpatrick (lead vocals), Noelle Scaggs (co-lead vocals and percussion), James King (saxophone, flute, keyboard, percussion and guitar), Joseph Karnes (bass guitar), Jeremy Ruzumna (keyboards) and John Wicks (drums and percussion) who left the band in 2022 to teach at University of Montana. Their debut studio album, Pickin' Up the Pieces, was released in August 2010 on indie label Dangerbird Records and received critical acclaim. It reached no. 1 on the Billboard Heatseekers chart. The band signed to their current label Elektra Records in early 2013 and went on to release their second LP, More Than Just a Dream, the same year. Their self-titled third album was released in 2016, which contains their most notable song, "HandClap". Their fourth studio album, All the Feels, was released in 2019.

History
Early history
Fitz and the Tantrums was founded by Michael Fitzpatrick in 2008. Having purchased an old Conn electronic organ, he was inspired to write the song "Breakin' the Chains of Love" that same night. He contacted his college friend, saxophonist James King, who recommended singer Noelle Scaggs and former drummer John Wicks who left the band in 2022. In turn, King brought in bassist Joseph Karnes and keyboardist Jeremy Ruzumna. According to Fitzpatrick, the band immediately clicked. He has said, "It was literally like five phone calls, one rehearsal, and we could have played a show that night." The band performed their first show at Hotel Café in Hollywood, in December 2008, which Fitzpatrick booked one week after their first rehearsal. In interviews, he has stated the importance of booking a date before the band was ready, in order to bring out the best in all performers. During the first half of 2009, they performed at several clubs in Los Angeles, including The Viper Room and Spaceland. Before Joseph Karnes was brought into the band, the previous bassist, Ethan Phillips was with the band for the first EP, and a part of their first album, "Pickin' Up The Pieces".

The band recorded their debut EP, Songs for a Breakup, Vol. 1, during the first half of 2009 at Fitzpatrick's home in Los Angeles. The EP was first released on August 11, 2009, through Canyon Productions. In September 2009 they toured with Hepcat and Flogging Molly. In November 2009 the band opened eight concerts on the Maroon 5's Back to School Tour. Their appearance was on short notice, after previously scheduled opener K'naan cancelled due to fatigue in late October. According to Fitzpatrick, "Adam Levine from Maroon 5 was in New York to get a tattoo, and his favorite tattoo artist had downloaded the record after hearing us on the radio. He told Adam, 'you gotta hear this band.' A week and a half later, we're opening for Maroon 5 on their college tour." In December 2009 the band shot the official music video for their first single, "Breakin' the Chains of Love", which was directed by Joshua Leonard. It features Fitzpatrick and Scaggs in a moving and rotating bed.

Pickin' Up the Pieces
In March 2010 Fitz and the Tantrums played at the SXSW festival in Austin, Texas. On April 15, 2010, they opened for ska band The Specials on their North American reunion tour at Club Nokia in Los Angeles. On April 26, 2010, Dangerbird Records announced that they had signed Fitz and the Tantrums. Their first full-length album, Pickin' Up the Pieces, was released on August 24, 2010. Producer Chris Seefried was also a co-writer on the album. In October 2010, Daryl Hall invited the band to perform on his web-series Live from Daryl's House. They played a seven-song set including four Fitz and the Tantrums songs, early Hall song "Girl I Love You", "Perkiomen" and finishing with "Sara Smile". "I walked back into the kitchen of his big old house in upstate New York, and his mother was there," recalled Fitzpatrick. "She said, 'Fitz, come over here. You sound just like my son!'"
The band performed the songs "MoneyGrabber" and "Don't Gotta Work It Out" on ABC's Jimmy Kimmel Live! in Los Angeles on January 12, 2011. On February 28 they performed "MoneyGrabber" on TBS' Conan, and on April 5 on NBC's The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. In 2011 the band announced a U.S. and international tour with April Smith and the Great Picture Show. In the fall of 2011, they made their first appearance at Austin City Limits Music Festival. On Friday, February 3, 2012, they performed "Don't Gotta Work It Out" on NBC's Late Night with Jimmy Fallon, episode 581, taped for broadcast at the Hilbert Circle Theatre in Indianapolis. They performed a free show at Thursday at the Square in Buffalo, New York, on June 14, 2012, and at the Basilica Block Party in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on July 7, 2012.

More Than Just a Dream
The band's second LP, More Than Just a Dream, was released May 7, 2013, on Elektra Records. It was produced by Tony Hoffer. The album features the lead single "Out of My League", which reached number one on Billboard's Alternative Songs chart on September 30, 2013. A French version of "Out of My League" was also released and played on Canadian radio. This version has most of the verses sung in French, while the chorus remains in English. The second single from More Than Just a Dream, "The Walker", also reached number one on the Billboard Alternative songs chart. In October 2014 Fitz and the Tantrums returned to the Austin City Limits Music Festival and played both weekends of the expanded festival.

Fitz and the Tantrums
In March 2016, the band released the lead single, "HandClap", off their self-titled album. The album was released on June 10, 2016, and was supported by the 2016 Get Right Back Summer Tour. In July 2016 Fitz and the Tantrums performed at Slossfest in Birmingham, Alabama. The band supported OneRepublic on the 2017 Honda Civic Tour which began on July 7, 2017.

All the Feels
On March 20, 2019, the band released the single "123456" from their fourth studio album. The second single, "Don't Ever Let Em", was released on April 17 of the same year, followed by "I Need Help!" on May 3, and then the title track of the album, "All the Feels" on June 28.
The album, All the Feels, consists of 17 songs and was released on September 20, 2019, through Elektra Records.

Let Yourself Free
On June 10, 2022, the band released the single "Sway" through Elektra Records. This was followed by the single "Moneymaker" on September 27, 2022, along with the announcement of their fifth studio album Let Yourself Free, which was released on November 11, 2022.

Musical style
Fitzpatrick has said that the band's musical style can be fairly described as "soul-influenced indie pop." He said that while the band is influenced by the classic songs of the Motown and Stax record labels, the band is not trying to create an exact replica of that music. In another interview, Fitzpatrick talked about his decision not to use guitars in the band. "I did want to try and make a big sounding record without guitars," he said. "For me, I just feel like in any music that has a band, the guitar is always there, it's always featured, it's always prevalent. I'm just sick of hearing it."

Critical reception
Los Angeles Times music critic Ann Powers wrote, "Fitz & the Tantrums is the kind of band that communicates best in concert, but this album serves as a fine proxy and party-starter." Aly Comingore of the Santa Barbara Independent wrote that the band members craft "soulful, nostalgia pop that's not only infectious, but just fresh enough to make it stand apart from its predecessors." The band was heralded as a "band to watch" in an April 2011 profile in Rolling Stone. In June 2011, Vogue named Fitz and the Tantrums the "Hardest-Working Band" of the 2011 summer festival circuit. "Not only do L.A.–based six-piece Fitz and the Tantrums share James Brown's penchant for snazzy-dressed brass bands and feel-good retro ballads, they also have the late godfather of soul's tireless work ethic." Their third album has been described as "a product of contemporary market forces and a depressing relic of an era of the music industry best forgotten."

Band members
Timeline
Discography
Pickin' Up the Pieces (2010)
More Than Just a Dream (2013)
Fitz and the Tantrums (2016)
All the Feels (2019)
Let Yourself Free (2022)
Passage 2:
Blood, Sweat &amp; 3 Years
Blood, Sweat & 3 Years is the fourth studio album by American electronic music group Cash Cash, released on June 24, 2016 by Big Beat Records and Atlantic Records. It is their first full-length album since signing to Big Beat, following the release of the Overtime and Lightning EPs. Blood, Sweat & 3 Years includes collaborations with singers Anjulie, Bebe Rexha, Chrish, Christina Perri, Dev, Jacquie Lee, Jenna Andrews, John Rzeznik from the Goo Goo Dolls, Julia Michaels, Michael Fitzpatrick of Fitz and the Tantrums, Neon Hitch, and Sofia Reyes; rappers B.o.B, Busta Rhymes, Nelly, and Trinidad James; DJ Digital Farm Animals; and groups Little Daylight and Night Terrors of 1927.

Background and composition
On April 28, 2016, the group announced the track listing and release date for Blood, Sweat & 3 Years. The album was produced by the group themselves and Digital Farm Animals. The album took 36 months to complete. Jean Paul Makhlouf spoke about the long process of finishing the album.

"The biggest thing that makes it hard for us to put out albums left and right is that we're not all home in one place for enough time. We play a lot of shows together, but most of the touring is done with me and Sam, and there's only so much that Alex or one of us can do back home in the studio. Sam can finish ideas that we started or he can keep things moving in a direction, but ultimately, we all need to be home in the studio to make a final product."
The title of the album comes from a representation of the last three years of the groups lives. Following the release of the album, the group embarked on a 2016 headlining tour called Must Be the Money Tour.

Singles
"Take Me Home", featuring guest vocals from singer Bebe Rexha, was released on July 15, 2013, originally from the band's 2013 EP Overtime. It was later included on Blood, Sweat & 3 Years as its first single. It reached number 57 on the Billboard Hot 100 selling 488,000 downloads, becoming their first (and, to date, only) charting single in the US. It also reached number 6 on the Dance/Electronic Songs chart. It also peaked within the top ten in Australia and the UK. The music video premiered on December 18, 2013. "Lightning", featuring guest vocals from Goo Goo Dolls frontman John Rzeznik, was released on March 24, 2014. It was originally from the band's 2014 EP Lightning, but was later included as the second single from Blood, Sweat & 3 Years. Unlike "Take Me Home", "Lightning" did not chart. The lyric video premiered on August 11, 2014. "Surrender", featuring uncredited guest vocals from singer and songwriter Julia Michaels, was released on September 16, 2014 as the third single from the album. Although it did not chart on the Hot 100, it did reach number 19 on the Dance/Electronic Songs chart. The music video premiered on January 15, 2015."Devil", featuring guest vocals from rappers Busta Rhymes and B.o.B and singer Neon Hitch, was released on August 7, 2015 as the album's fourth single. It reached number 28 on the Dance/Electronic songs chart, and number 110 in the UK. "Escarole" was released on December 11, 2015 as the album's fifth single."Aftershock", featuring guest vocals from singer Jacquie Lee, was released on January 29, 2016 as the album's sixth single. The music video premiered on March 16, 2016. "How to Love", featuring guest vocals from Mexican singer Sofia Reyes, was released on April 29, 2016 as the album's seventh single. It peaked at number 16 on the Dance/Electronic Songs chart. The music video premiered on the same day. "Millionaire", their collaboration with British DJ Digital Farm Animals, featuring guest vocals from rapper Nelly, was released on June 3, 2016 as the album's eighth single. It debuted at number 22 on the Dance/Electronic Songs chart. The music video was released on June 27, 2016. "Broken Drum", featuring guest vocals from Michael Fitzpatrick of Fitz and the Tantrums, was released on June 17, 2016 as the album's ninth single, accompanied by a music video.

Critical reception
Alexendra Blair from Dancing Astronaut wrote that Cash Cash have "delivered a quality pop music release on which any song could be a confetti-drenched closer" by praising their track production and the appearance of quality collaborators such as Christina Perri and  Michael Fitzpatrick of Fitz and the Tantrums. She then criticised Nelly's performance on "Millionaire" by describing it as a "whitewashing of the rapper's sometimes gritty and often wryly wrought vocal style" and felt that "Devil" was "hollow with a sanitized inauthenticity" despite strong verses from B.o.B and Busta Rhymes. AllMusic's Neil Z. Yeung gave the album a 4/5 rating and stated that it was a "celebration of the many facets of dance in the 2010s EDM era, from trap to tropical and everything in between". He complimented their "impressive list of guests for the effort" and said that the brightest moments of the record came courtesy of the female vocalists, who bring a "carefree and breezy energy to balance the machismo". Connor Jones from We Got This Covered felt like the album "plays more like a loose collection of songs than a cohesive whole", due to some tracks being released back in 2013 which causes them to feel mismatched when listened to. He continued by stating that the record feels repetitious and formulaic regarding its female led vocal collaborations, even with the presence of many excellent tracks. The critic concluded by writing that tracks like "How To Love" which "strike the right balance between radio friendly pop and crowd pleasing dance rhythms" works best in Blood, Sweat & 3 Years, and praised the "crystal clear mixing" and "excellent synth work" on the record.Daniel Patrin of Renowned For Sound granted the record a 2/5 rating and stated that it consisted of "calculable, artificial pop music with forced momentum", mimicking the works of Afrojack and Swedish House Mafia which made it lack "any real aspects of individualism".

Track listing
All tracks produced by Cash Cash, except "Millionaire" produced by Cash Cash and Digital Farm Animals.

Personnel
Credits for Blood, Sweat & 3 Years adapted from AllMusic.

Charts
Certifications
Release history
Passage 3:
Out of My League
Out of My League may refer to:

Out of My League (song), a song recorded by American band Fitz and the Tantrums
Out of My League (film), a 2020 Italian romantic comedy-drama film by Alice Filippi
Passage 4:
James King (musician)
James King is an American multi-instrumentalist who is a co-founder for soul band Fitz and the Tantrums. In 2008, he was approached by college friend Michael Fitzpatrick to play saxophone on a few songs that he had written which turned out to be the beginnings of Fitz and the Tantrums.  King recommended Noelle Scaggs and other musicians.  They performed for the first time a week later at Hollywood's Hotel Café.  They released their debut EP Songs for a Breakup, Vol. 1 in August 2009, and the tracks soon received airplay on public radio station KCRW in Los Angeles.Six months after their first performance they had slots at Lollapalooza and Telluride Blues & Brews. In late 2009 they toured with Hepcat, Flogging Molly, and opened eight concerts for Maroon 5. The band signed to Dangerbird Records in April 2010, 
Their first full-length album, Pickin' Up the Pieces was released on August 24, 2010. It received critical acclaim and reached No. 1 on the Billboard Heatseekers chart, 140 on the Billboard 200, and 18 on the Independent Albums chart.
They were called by Vogue Magazine the "Hardest Working Band of 2011". According to Rolling Stone, the band "throws a sparkling pop gloss on a familiar Motown sound"

Background
King was raised by a jazz guitarist father and a classical cellist mother. They introduced him to a wide range of music from an early age. In addition to the jazz training and classical training that he started at age five, he also started learning guitar, violin and piano before settling on the flute when he was nine years old; he added the saxophone when he was 11. King studied music privately and attended Los Angeles County High School for the Arts for his last two years of high school, after which he attended the California Institute of the Arts (1993–1999), where he went to earn his Bachelor of Fine Arts degree in jazz performance. Before, King worked on a wide range of projects in the music industry and taught at the Silverlake Conservatory of Music.

Discography
Fitz and the Tantrums
Studio albums2009: Songs for a Breakup, Vol. 1  
2010: Santa Stole My Lady  
2010: Pickin' Up the Pieces 
2013: More Than Just a Dream 
2016: Fitz and the Tantrums

Other work
2000–2010: Domingosiete  ("saxofonista")
2001–2010: Breakestra
2002–2010: Connie Price and the Keystones
2004–2005: Orgone
2008–2009: Composer, Nic and Tristan Go Mega-Dega 
2008–2010: The Lions 
2010: Performed in Burlesque starring Cher and Christina Aguilera
2013: Fanfare Jonathan Wilson album, saxophone and flute
2014: "Weird Al" Yankovic Mandatory Fun, saxophone
Passage 5:
Spencer Ludwig
Spencer Ludwig (born 24 June 1990) is an American trumpeter, singer, songwriter, producer and musical director from Los Angeles, California. Ludwig is the trumpet player of the band Capital Cities. He recorded on their platinum debut album In a Tidal Wave of Mystery and toured with them from 2011 to 2015. He has also performed with Harry Styles, Dua Lipa, Gallant, Mike Posner, Foster the People, Portugal. The Man, Fitz and the Tantrums, RAC, Joywave, St. Lucia, Cherub, and The Wailers. In 2018 he began his career as an independent artist and formed Trumpet Records.

Early life and education
Ludwig is the son of a Filipino mother and a Russian-Jewish father. He grew up in Los Angeles, California. He attended Oakwood School and began playing saxophone in the fourth grade due to his school's support for performing arts. Ludwig grew fond of jazz music and performed in the school's jazz band during his middle school years.Ludwig learned to play the French horn in high school but decided to apply to college as a trumpet player. He started off by teaching himself how to play the trumpet going into his senior year of high school. He was accepted to California Institute of the Arts where he studied jazz. He supported his way through school by playing with local bands from Los Angeles and teaching trumpet part-time at his former high school.

Career
Ludwig was part of the local Los Angeles music scene, performing with numerous bands.[1] He began performing while in college, forming a cover band with friends that graduated from Oakwood School a few years before him.[2] It was in 2011 that Ludwig got his break with Capital Cities.[2]
While playing at a local music festival with a band called Sister Rogers in 2011, Capital Cities band members Ryan Merchant and Sebu Simonian watched him perform, later asking him to join the group as its trumpet player.[1][2] Ludwig shifted his focus to solely playing with the band and recorded and toured with them for the next four years.[1] He recorded trumpet on the group's platinum debut album In a Tidal Wave of Mystery.[3]
In 2015 Ludwig signed a record deal with Warner Bros. Records as a solo artist.[4] In July 2016 he released his first two singles Diggy and Right Into U.[7] The song "Diggy" was featured in Target's fall style TV campaign, which premiered on September 14, 2016.[8] "Diggy" also appeared in the feature film "Happy Death Day" and the video game Just Dance 2018. In 2018 Ludwig left Warner Bros. Records to pursue a career as an independent artist and to form his own record label Trumpet Records. In March 2018 he released his first single as an independent artist "Just Wanna Dance" and he collaborated with five-time Latin Grammy winner Fonseca on his song "Por Pura Curiosidad", which was featured on his album Agustín and earned a Latin Grammy in 2019 for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album.In 2017 in front of 46,556 fans, he performed the national anthem on trumpet at the 2017 NHL Winter Classic at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri featuring the Chicago Blackhawks and St. Louis Blues (a first for the Winter Classic). That same year he became the official band leader and musical director for the annual NFL Honors Awards and in 2021 he became the musical director for the ESPY Awards.

Discography
Solo Releases
Songwriting, recording and production credits
Passage 6:
Michael Fitzpatrick (musician)
Michael Sean "Fitz" Fitzpatrick (born 21 July 1970) is a French-born American musician and singer-songwriter, who is the lead vocalist of the indie pop/neo-soul band Fitz and the Tantrums.
Fitz and the Tantrums were heralded as a "band to watch" in an April 2011 profile in Rolling Stone. Their 2010 debut full-length album Pickin' Up the Pieces received critical acclaim and reached #1 on the Billboard Heatseekers chart.In May 2021, Fitzpatrick released his debut solo album, Head Up High.

Biography
Born in Montluçon, France, Fitzpatrick grew up in Los Angeles. His father, Robert Fitzpatrick, is Irish American and his mother, Sylvie, is French. He attended the L.A. County High School for the Arts, studying vocal music and then studied experimental film at the California Institute of the Arts, where he met fellow band member James King. Although he now composes primarily on the piano and organ, he only had formal piano training later in life. He has said, "I'd always been a decent singer, but I got frustrated by my inability to play piano by anything more than by ear. I took piano lessons when I was 32, and it opened up a whole new vocabulary for me." Fitzpatrick grew up mostly listening to classical music, as he was discouraged from listening to other music styles in the household. One concession, however, was being allowed to listen to a local oldie radio station in the car driving to and from school.After college, he worked for many years behind the scenes as a sound engineer for producer Mickey Petralia, who produced Beck, Ladytron, Flight of the Conchords, and The Dandy Warhols.In late 2008, Fitzpatrick received a call from an ex-girlfriend to tell him about a neighbor who needed to unload or sell a church organ for $50. Fitzpatrick told her to pay the neighbor the $50 and arranged to have the organ moved to his apartment that same day. That evening, inspired by the organ, he wrote the song "Breakin' the Chains of Love". He has stated, "I immediately knew it was the best song I'd written. I could astral plane out and hear myself, like, 'wow!' Not bad!". Fitzpatrick decided to form a band, and contacted friend and saxophonist James King. Through phone calls they assembled the band, with King recommending singer Noelle Scaggs and drummer John Wicks, and Wicks in turn bringing in bassist Ethan Phillips and keyboardist Jeremy Ruzumna. The band met for its first rehearsal a week later and instantly clicked.
In interviews, he has emphasized his eclectic musical tastes. He has said, "We [the band] all have a love affair with soul and funk music. For me, it's obviously Otis Redding, Marvin Gaye, the Supremes, all that stuff. My musical taste runs the gamut from Radiohead to Zeppelin to Major Lazer. My older brother was really into '80s new wave, so a lot of the first records I got to borrow and steal were his."

Personal life
In May 2013, it was announced that Fitzpatrick was expecting a child with then-girlfriend actress Kaylee DeFer. DeFer gave birth to their son in September 2013. Fitzpatrick and DeFer married on 25 July 2015. Their second son was born in April 2017 and a third son was born in May 2019.

Discography
Albums
Solo
Head Up High

With Band of Merrymakers
Welcome to Our Christmas Party

With Fitz and the Tantrums
Pickin' Up the Pieces
More Than Just a Dream
Fitz and the Tantrums
All the Feels

Singles
As solo artist
As featured artist
Guest appearances
Passage 7:
HandClap
"HandClap" is a song recorded by American indie pop band Fitz and the Tantrums. The song was released as the lead single from their self-titled album Fitz and the Tantrums on March 25, 2016, through Elektra Records. It is their highest-charting song on the Billboard Hot 100, peaking at number 53. The song was also included in Playground Games' Forza Horizon 3 soundtrack and Just Dance Unlimited for Just Dance 2017. A rendition of the song was also performed on the South Korean-Japanese survival show Produce 48 in 2018. Since its release, the song has gained popularity from its usage during sporting events.

Track listing
Charts
Certifications
Passage 8:
Elina Siirala
Elina Siirala (born 27 October 1983) is a Finnish soprano. She is the founder and frontwoman for the English melodic metal band Angel Nation (formerly EnkElination) and the current female vocalist for the German symphonic metal/viking metal band Leaves' Eyes. Elina is the second cousin of Tuomas Holopainen, founder and keyboardist of Nightwish.

Career
After completing a bachelor's degree in classical singing in Helsinki, Elina moved to London in 2008 to study contemporary vocals.
In 2011, she formed the melodic metal band EnkElination, the band name being a play on words featuring "enkeli", the Finnish word for "angel", and also her name "Elina" in the middle. In 2016 the band announced they would translate their name to "Angel Nation".
The new band name of Angel Nation was shortly followed on 12 April 2016 by the announcement of a new drummer Lucas Robert Williamson joining existing members Shadow on guitar and Julia on bass.

The band played several live shows both headlining venues such as the Camden Underworld and supporting larger bands, as well as festival appearances including Bloodstock Open Air in 2014 and Dames of Darkness in 2015. She came to the attention of Leaves' Eyes during one of those support slots, and in 2016 she was invited to join Leaves' Eyes to replace departing singer Liv Kristine.In 2016 Elina toured the United States with Leaves Eyes.  In October 2016 she released the single "Do It Anyway" with her band Angel Nation via Nuclear Blast.  The single was accompanied by a video produced by Caz Reason and featured fellow band members Shadow, Julia and Lucas.
In 2017 Leaves Eyes announced another tour of the United States alongside Sabaton whilst Elina also returned to work on recordings for Angel Nation's second album "Aeon".  "Aeon" was released on 27 October 2017 with a small European tour announced alongside Elyose.

Discography
Passage 9:
Songs for a Breakup, Vol. 1
Songs for a Breakup: Vol. 1 is the debut studio EP by the American indie rock band Fitz and the Tantrums, released on August 11, 2009 through Canyon Productions. It was re-released in 2010 when the band signed to Dangerbird Records.

Track listing
Personnel
Michael Fitzpatrick
Noelle Scaggs
Joseph Karnes
James King
Jeremy Ruzumna
John Wicks

Additional personnel
Chris Seefried – producer, guitar, bass, vocals, keyboards
Maya Azucena – vocals
Sebastian Steinberg – bass
Matt Cooker – cello
Stewart Cole – trumpet
Scott Ellis – drums
Tay Strathairn – piano
Chris Constable – mixing
Josh Brochhausen  – mixing
Gavin Lurssen – mastering
Edon – photography
Alex Tenta – design, layout
Lisa Nupoff – management
Brian Klein – management
Passage 10:
Noelle Scaggs
Noelle Scaggs (born October 8, 1979) is an American musician and singer-songwriter from Los Angeles, known as the co-lead singer of the pop group Fitz and the Tantrums. Scaggs has also had numerous collaborations with the Black Eyed Peas, Dilated Peoples, Quantic, Mayer Hawthorne, and Damian Marley.
In 2008 she became a co-lead singer of the indie pop and neo-soul band Fitz and the Tantrums, and is featured on their 2010 album Pickin' Up the Pieces, which hit No. 1 on the Billboard Heatseekers chart. She has toured extensively with the band and performed on shows such as Jimmy Kimmel Live!, Conan, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Ellen, GMA, The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, and The Late Late Show with James Corden.
She has been critically acclaimed for her "powerhouse vocals" and charismatic on-stage presence.

Early life
Scaggs was born on October 8, 1979, in Denver, Colorado. Her father was a DJ and Scaggs was exposed to his vinyl collection at a young age, including Parliament, Teena Marie, and The Pointer Sisters. She also listened to her parents play artists such as Marvin Gaye and The Temptations during house parties, and was influenced as a young singer by the music of Tina Turner.Early on, Scaggs would perform for friends and family, and at around 9 years of age, became more seriously interested in singing. In elementary school she began practicing daily and signed herself up for all available talent shows. According to Scaggs, "I was one of those kids who had friends but got picked on a lot...I felt like I needed an outlet. For me, that outlet was music." Except for a year of vocal training in high school, she was self-taught and only considered becoming a professional musician as she approached graduation from South Pasadena High School.

Music career
Collaborations
After high school Scaggs began working as both a professional songwriter and vocalist. Early on she faced financial hurdles, as well as finding the right producers. As a songwriter, Scaggs has referenced creative influences as diverse as Radiohead and The Bird and the Bee.Her first major label appearance was in 2000, as lead vocalist on the track "If There Be Pain" on the Interscope compilation project The Rose That Grew from Concrete. In 2001 she contributed vocals to Expansion Team by Dilated Peoples, and in 2003 contributed background vocals to the Elephunk LP by The Black Eyed Peas and Must B 21 by will.i.am.
In 2003 she released her first 12" LP, The Craft, featuring hip-hop trio Dilated Peoples.She was a primary artist in 2006 on An Announcement to Answer by Quantic, and has since worked as a composer, songwriter, or vocalist with artists such as Orgone, Mayer Hawthorne, The Quantic Soul Orchestra, Guilty Simpson, Koushik, and Evidence. She also worked on Damian Marley's 2010 release with rapper Nas.In July 2008 she performed in four shows on Scion A/V's "Live Metro" tour featuring hardcore rap duo M.O.P. Funk band Connie Price and the Keystones and saxophonist James King (later of Fitz and the Tantrums), provided backing.She has also sung backup for Miley Cyrus and modeled in an art piece for Kanye West.  In 2008 she hosted the VMA's Nappy Boy TV with T-Pain. She has contributed to a number of film soundtracks as a singer and songwriter, including Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story (in which she was also an uncredited actress) and The Nanny Diaries with Scarlett Johansson. She acted as a backup singer in Be Cool with John Travolta.

The Rebirth
Scaggs soon joined as front-woman and songwriter for The Rebirth, a Los Angeles soul band. In 2005 The Rebirth released their first album This Journey In on independent label Kajmere Sound. She wrote the track "Stray Away" and a number of other songs on their LP, co-writing with band leader Carlos Guiaco.The first single, "This Journey In", hit the top 5 of playlists throughout Europe and Japan, and attracted the attention of DJs such as BBC Radio 1's Gilles Peterson, King Britt of the group Digable Planets, and Norman Jay MBE. Scaggs toured with the band for ten years before taking two years off from music.

Fitz and the Tantrums
In December 2008 she joined the Los Angeles soul/pop band Fitz and the Tantrums for a rehearsal after being recommended to band leader Michael Fitzpatrick by saxophone player James King. According to Scaggs, "When I first heard the project I was really attracted to the sound. It was something that wasn't really familiar in the spectrum of not being exactly Motown or something from the '80s."They performed for the first time a week later at Hollywood's Hotel Café, and she decided to remain with the band as a vocalist, songwriter, and lyricist. They released their debut EP Songs for a Breakup, Vol. 1 in August 2009, and the tracks soon received airplay on public radio station KCRW in Los Angeles.
Six months after their first performance they had slots at Lollapalooza and Telluride Blues & Brews. In late 2009 they toured with Hepcat, Flogging Molly, and opened eight concerts for Maroon 5. The band signed to Dangerbird Records in April 2010, and Scaggs has since appeared with the band on Jimmy Kimmel Live!,  Conan and The Tonight Show with Jay Leno.
Their first full-length album, Pickin' Up the Pieces was released on August 24, 2010. It received critical acclaim and reached No. 1 on the Billboard Heatseekers chart, 140 on the Billboard 200, and 18 on the Independent Albums chart.
They were called by Vogue Magazine the "Hardest Working Band of 2011," and "Artist to Watch" in Rolling Stone. Also according to Rolling Stone, the band "throws a sparkling pop gloss on a familiar Motown sound thanks in large part to the powerhouse vocals of sultry singer Noelle Scaggs."

Discography
Singles
2003: The Craft (featuring Dilated Peoples)
2018: Great For You (featuring BRÅVES)

The Rebirth
Studio albums2006: This Journey In (Vocals, composer)

Fitz and the Tantrums
Studio albums2009: Songs for a Breakup, Vol. 1 EP (Composer, vocals)
2010: Santa Stole My Lady EP (Composer, vocals)
2010: Pickin' Up the Pieces (Composer, vocals)
2013: More Than Just A Dream (Composer, vocals, keyboards)
2016: Fitz and the Tantrums ((Composer, vocals)
2019: All the Feels (Composer, vocals)

Collaborations
Studio albums2000: The Rose That Grew from Concrete (Vocals)
2000: Bridging the Gap by The Black Eyed Peas (Background vocals)
2001: Expansion Team by Dilated Peoples (Vocals)
2003: Elephunk by The Black Eyed Peas (Background vocals)
2003: Must B 21: Soundtrack to Get Things Started by will.i.am (Background vocals)
2004: Crescent Moon by Lunar Heights (Primary artist, vocals)
2004: The Arrival by Cutthroat Dymond Cutz Family (Primary artist, vocals)
2005: 100% Black Novenoe Volument DVD (Background vocals)
2005: Grammy Nominees 2005 (Background vocals)
2005: Push Comes to Shove by MED (Composer)
2005: Monkey Business by The Black Eyed Peas (Background Vocals)
2005: Soul Divas (Wagram) (Featured artist)
2006: An Announcement to Answer by Quantic (Composer, primary artist, vocals)
2006: Authentic Vintage by Jern Eye (Vocals)
2007: Rough Guide to Latin Funk (Composer)
2007: Shapes 07:01 (Composer)
2007: Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story (Musician, vocals)
2007: The Killion Floor by Orgone (Lyricist, primary artist, vocals)
2007: The Weatherman LP by Evidence (Choir, vocals)
2007: Tropidelico by The Quantic Soul Orchestra (Primary artist, vocals)
2008: Jungle Struttin' by The Lions (Vocals)
2008: Ode to the Ghetto by Guilty Simpson (Vocals)
2008: Out My Window by Koushik (Vocals)
2008: The Layover EP by Evidence (Vocals)
2009: The Connection, Vol. 1 by Evidence (Featured artist, vocals)
2010: Distant Relatives by Damian "Junior Gong" Marley (Background vocals)
2010: Fairfax Avenue by Roy Jay (Background vocals)
2010: For What You've Lost by Raashan Ahmad (Featured artist)
2011: Cats and Dogs by Evidence (Vocals)
2011: How Do You Do by Mayer Hawthorne (Vocals)
2011: Extra Playful by John Cale (Background vocals)

Singles
"Let's Do It Again"/"Cherry Pie" (Featured artist, composer)

Filmography
2005: Be Cool (Backup singer)
2006: Where is Love Waiting (Singer)