Passage 1:
Elle King
Tanner Elle Schneider (born July 3, 1989), known professionally as Elle King, is an American singer, songwriter, musician, and actress. Her musical style is influenced by country, rock and blues.In 2012, King released her debut EP, The Elle King EP, on RCA; one track from that EP, "Playing for Keeps", is the theme song for VH1's Mob Wives Chicago series.She released her debut album, Love Stuff, in 2015. It produced the US top ten single "Ex's & Oh's", which earned her two Grammy Award nominations. King has also toured with acts such as Of Monsters and Men, Train, James Bay, The Chicks, Heart, Joan Jett, Michael Kiwanuka, and Miranda Lambert. Her parents are actor and comedian Rob Schneider and former model London King.  She uses her mother's surname to distinguish herself and her career and identity from her father's, telling ABC News that "I think that my voice and my music speaks for itself: that I am my own person."King is a four-time Grammy Award nominee, two each in the rock and country categories, and received honors from the Country Music Association Awards and the Academy of Country Music Awards.

Early life
King was born on July 3, 1989, in Los Angeles, California, to then-Saturday Night Live cast member Rob Schneider and London King, a former model. Her parents divorced and her mother remarried. She grew up living in Ohio, between Wellston and Columbus. When she was nine, her stepfather, Justin Tesa, gave her a record by all-female hard-rock band the Donnas; she views this as the pivotal moment when she decided she wanted to be a musician. Around this time, she also started listening to the Runaways and Blondie, and she made her acting debut alongside her father in the movie Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo.At the age of 13, King started playing guitar, immersing herself in the music of Otis Redding, the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Etta James, Aretha Franklin, Al Green, Hank Williams, Johnny Cash, AC/DC (she has the phrase "dirty deeds" tattooed on her biceps), and Earl Scruggs. Her interest in the country and bluegrass of Hank Williams and Earl Scruggs inspired her to learn the banjo. During her teenage years, she attended Buck's Rock camp in Connecticut, where she starred successfully in a number of musicals.King spent her teenage years in New York City, but she has also lived in Los Angeles, Philadelphia, and Copenhagen, Denmark. Upon graduating from Elisabeth Irwin High School/Little Red School House, she moved to Philadelphia to enroll at the University of the Arts, studying painting and film. During these college years, she had an artistic epiphany seeing a live show where the band onstage used a banjo purely for accompaniment purposes, eschewing the bluegrass and country musical vocabulary traditionally associated with the instrument. King then began to use the banjo as a compositional tool. After college, she briefly lived in Copenhagen and Los Angeles, before moving back to New York where she currently resides in Bushwick, Brooklyn.

Career
1999–2013: Career beginnings
In 1999, she debuted as an actress in her father's film Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo. In 2005, at age 16, she started gigging around New York City, using a fake ID to gain entry to the local nightclubs. King immersed herself in the local songwriting scene and honed her performance skills by busking around town. King was then signed by newly appointed RCA Chairman Peter Edge. Her debut single "Good To Be A Man", was released on March 13, 2012, as a digital download and also as a 7" vinyl single. On June 12, 2012, the four-song The Elle King EP was released on RCA. The EP was recorded in New York and was produced by Andy Baldwin and Chris DeStefano, with King herself producing a track. The EP's lead track, "Playing for Keeps", was chosen as the theme song for VH1's Mob Wives Chicago series that premiered on June 10, 2012, on VH1.King was spotlighted as an "Artist to Watch in 2012" by Esquire Magazine and made television appearances on VH1 Big Morning Buzz Live and the Late Show with David Letterman. King has played Austin, Texas, at the South by Southwest Festival, as well as the Hammersmith Apollo. She has also taped her own PBS Arts In Context special for KLRU Austin at the Austin City Limits recording studio. She toured with Of Monsters and Men, Train and Michael Kiwanuka and has opened for Dashboard Confessional, Dropkick Murphys, Dry the River, James Bay and Ed Sheeran.

2014–present: Love Stuff, Shake the Spirit and Come And Get Your Wife
In September 2014, King released "Ex's & Oh's", which serves as the lead single off her debut album. She released the album, Love Stuff on February 17, 2015. She performed "Ex's & Oh's" the next day on The Today Show to promote it. The song reached number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100, becoming King's first top ten single in the United States. "Ex's & Oh's" received two nominations at the 58th Grammy Awards: Best Rock Performance and Best Rock Song. In July 2015, King supported Modest Mouse on their UK tour. "Under the Influence" and "America's Sweetheart" were later released as singles for rock radio and mainstream radio, respectively. In 2016, her single "Good Girls" featured on the Ghostbusters soundtrack and played over the movie's credits. In 2016, she teamed up with country singer Dierks Bentley for the song "Different for Girls". They performed this song at the 50th CMA Awards on November 2, 2016, when she and Bentley won the award for Musical Event of the Year.On March 6, 2017, she premiered a new single "Wild Love" featuring a sparse electronic production, marking a slight departure from her previous style in music. King released her second studio album, Shake the Spirit, on October 19, 2018, which she made with her band the Brethren. On August 3, 2019, she was featured singing on a version of  Lindsey Stirling's "The Upside". Throughout 2019, King served as a guest co-host on the MTV series Catfish: The TV Show opposite lead host Nev Schulman.King's third album, Come Get Your Wife, was released on January 27, 2023, and displays a move into country music.

Musical style and influences
According to The Guardian, King's musical style is "steeped in every genre of vintage Americana  – sassy rock'n'roll, vampy R&B, country sadness and a little blues." King's music was classified as blues rock by Nylon, and as alternative country by Alternative Nation. According to King, "I say that I sing a little bit of country blues, [...] it kind of changes from song to song, whatever I'm listening to or feeling. Sometimes it's really country, sometimes it's soulful, sometimes it's, like, wrist-slitting folk music; sad songs." She cited Etta James, Aretha Franklin, Al Green, Otis Redding, Hank Williams, Johnny Cash and AC/DC as her musical influences.

Personal life
King started dating Andrew Ferguson in January 2016. The couple met in a hotel lobby in London and were engaged 12 days later on a sailing trip around the San Francisco Bay. They married on February 14, 2016, and confirmed their intent to divorce on May 15, 2017. On April 23, 2017, Ferguson was arrested and charged with felony domestic violence after allegedly grabbing King by the throat and threatening to kill her, though this charge was later dropped. King and Ferguson briefly reconciled in late 2017.On October 9, 2020, King and tattoo artist Dan Tooker became engaged when simultaneously proposing to each other on their first anniversary of dating. Five months later, it was revealed she was pregnant with their first child. On September 1, 2021, she gave birth to a son named Lucky. The couple broke up in 2023.
King has several tattoos, and worked at a tattoo company called East Side Ink.

Discography
Studio albums

Love Stuff (2015)
Shake the Spirit (2018)
Come Get Your Wife (2023)

Filmography
Concert tours
Headlining
Love Stuff Tour (2015)
Shake The Spirit Tour (2019)
A-FREAKIN-MEN Tour (2022)

Opening act
Dashboard Confessional – The Swiss Army Romance (2010)
Of Monsters and Men – My Head Is an Animal Tour (2011)
Train – California 37 Tour (2012)
Michael Kiwanuka – Home Again Tour (2012)
Dropkick Murphys – Signed and Sealed in Blood Tour (2013)
Ed Sheeran – + Tour (2013)
Dry the River – Alarms in the Heart Tour (2014)
James Bay – Chaos and the Calm Tour (2015)
Modest Mouse – Strangers to Ourselves Tour (2015)
Maroon 5 – Maroon V Tour (2016)
Dixie Chicks – DCX MMXVI World Tour (2016)
Miranda Lambert – Roadside Bars and Pink Guitars Tour (2019)
Joan Jett & Heart – Love Alive Tour (2019)
Chris Stapleton - Chris Stapleton's All-American Road Show (2022)

Awards and nominations
Passage 2:
Big Stan
Big Stan is a 2007 American prison comedy film starring, produced and directed by Rob Schneider in his directorial debut with help from his company From Out of Nowhere Productions while the rest of the cast consisting of Jennifer Morrison, Scott Wilson, Henry Gibson, Richard Kind, Sally Kirkland, Jackson Rathbone, M. Emmet Walsh, Dan Haggerty and David Carradine. It tells the story of a real estate con artist who gets sentenced to three years in prison and spends the six months before it getting trained to survive in prison by a martial arts guru. This film was Gibson's final role before his death in 2009.
Although released in some markets during the fall of 2008, it was released straight to DVD in the U.S. on March 24, 2009. It debuted at number 17 on the DVD rental charts of March 23–30, 2009.

Plot
Stan Minton (Rob Schneider) is a wealthy real estate con artist, married to Mindy (Jennifer Morrison). One day, he is arrested for conning elderly people out of their savings. His lawyer Mal (Richard Kind) defends him at the trial presided over by Judge Perry (Richard Riehle) as the forewoman (Sally Kirkland) finds him guilty where the sentencing will be tomorrow.
While talking with Stan, Mal refuses to bribe Judge Perry since he does not practice that kind of law and states to Stan that any shyster on the street would do it for him. Inspired by the bench advertisement outside, Stan fires Mal from the case and hires Lew Popper (M. Emmet Walsh) as a replacement for the sentencing. Judge Perry sentences Stan to 3 years at the Oakfield Correctional Facility while giving him 6 months by Judge Perry to "reorganize the charity" Stan established to teach music to mentally disabled children.
As he can't go on a permanent vacation to Brazil on Lew's advice due to his assets being frozen, Stan gets drunk and visits a biker bar where he has the fear of jailhouse rape instilled in him by a biker ex con (Dan Haggerty) that strains his marriage to Mindy. This leads him to hire the mysterious guru known as "The Master" (David Carradine) who helps transform him into a Martial Arts expert.
During his incarceration, Stan befriends an elderly inmate named Larry (Henry Gibson) who is serving a life sentence for murdering his partner. Stan also befriends a sympathetic prison guard named Bullard (Kevin Gage) and learns more about the cliques and gang activities formed inside the prison. He then uses his new-found skills to bring peace and harmony to the prison yard by intimidating his fellow inmates like Big Raymond (Bob Sapp) into preventing them from harming each other. With this, peace is restored in at Verlaine State Correctional Facility and Stan gains their respect, eventually becoming their leader.
However, the corrupt warden Gasque (Scott Wilson) has plans to force its closure with a riot and sell off the property as valuable real estate. Stan helps him with the real estate aspects in exchange for early parole. However, his peacemaking efforts threaten the warden's plan for a riot and he is persuaded to bring back violence.
In a last minute attack of conscience, he deliberately blows the parole hearing to rush back and prevent the deaths of his fellow inmates only to discover that his message of peace has sunk in and the prisoners are dancing instead of fighting. Warden Gasque orders the guards to open fire on the dancing men. When they refuse, he grabs a gun in front of the Board of Governors and shoots wildly. Warden Gasque attempts to shoot Stan, but he is stopped by Mindy and the Master, who had sneaked in. Stan was surprised that the Master had trained Mindy during his incarceration when he thought they were having an affair during an earlier Conjugal.
Three years later, Stan leaves the prison where Bullard had been sworn in as the new warden of Verlaine State Correctional Facility. Gasque becomes the new inmate following his arrest for his illegal activities as Big Raymond intimidates him to say goodbye to Stan. Lew is also an inmate after he had foreseen that he would be arrested for having slept with a member of the jury and for being a corrupted lawyer. Stan is met by his wife, his young daughter Mindy Jr., and the Master outside the prison. While the Master has become Mindy Jr.'s nanny, Stan is annoyed that he has been smoking near her.

Cast
Rob Schneider as "Big" Stan Minton, a rich real estate con artist.
Jennifer Morrison as Mindy Minton, Stan's wife.
Scott Wilson as Francis Gasque, the corrupt prison warden of Verlaine State Correctional Facility who seeks to get the prison closed down so that he can sell the land.
Henry Gibson as Larry / "Shorts", an inmate that Stan befriends who is serving a life sentence for killing his partner.
Richard Kind as Mal, Stan's lawyer.
Sally Kirkland as Madame Foreman, a jury member that finds Stan guilty.
Jackson Rathbone as Robbie, an inmate who is a hippie and former drug dealer.
M. Emmet Walsh as Lew Popper, a shyster that Stan replaces Mal with during his trial.
David Carradine as The Master, a martial arts guru that trains Stan to survive prison.
Marcelo Ortega as Big Haa, an inmate.
Marcia Wallace as Alma
Diego Corrales as Julio
Randy Couture as Carnahan
Don Frye as Nation Member
Brandon Molale as Guard Piken
Lil Rob as Inmate
Brandon T. Jackson as Deshawn, an inmate.
Olivia Munn as Maria, a secretary.
Barbara Dodd as Mrs. Darby, an old lady that Stan tried to con.
Richard Riehle as Judge Perry, a judge that presides over Stan's trial.
Kevin Gage as Bullard, a sympathetic prison guard.
Dan Inosanto as Prison Chef
Bob Sapp as Big Raymond, a tough inmate.
Tsuyoshi Abe as Dang, a Vietnamese Mafia member and one of the Master's students.
Ahman Green as Lee Otis, a former bank robber and inmate.
Salvator Xuereb as Patterson, the leader of the Nazi Prison Gang.
Buddy Lewis as Cleon, the leader of the Black Prison Gang.
Peter Vasquez as Juanito, the leader of the Mexican Prison Gang.
Megan Cavanagh as a Parole Board member.
Dan Haggerty as an ex-con who is gay
Faith Womack as Mindy Jr., Stan and Mindy's daughter.
Andrew Bernhard as InmateRob Schneider's mother Pilar cameos as one of the Board of Governors. Wes Takahashi, former animator and visual effects supervisor for Industrial Light & Magic, makes a cameo appearance as a bartender.

Production
Reception
On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 11% based on reviews from 9 critics (1 positive, 8 negative), with an average rating of 3.00/10.Julie Rigg of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation was highly critical of the rape-based humor, and concluded " I wasted two valuable hours of my life on Big Stan—don't make the same mistake." Writing for The Sydney Morning Herald, Paul Byrnes asked "If there's been a clumsier, dumber, more casually put together collection of badly timed gags, racial stereotypes and lazy performances this year, I have yet to see it...How could [Schneider] be in so many movies over a 20-year career and learn so little about making a movie?" Brian Orndorf of DVDTalk.com called it "a forgettable, unfunny waste of time". He criticized the "unrelenting" repetition of rape jokes, but believed that Schneider acted the character's fear of rape convincingly.MovieHole rated it 3.5 out of 5 and called it Schneider's best film since The Hot Chick.
Passage 3:
John Schneider (producer)
John Steven Schneider (born April 23, 1962) is an American film, television and multi-media producer and artists' manager based in Los Angeles, California. The Pacifica, California, native made his first forays into show business when he took on the position of personal manager for his younger brother, comedian and actor Rob Schneider, and subsequently managed the San Francisco area rock band Head On. Eventually, John transitioned into producing movies such as The Hot Chick and Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo, alongside executive producers Adam Sandler and Jack Giarraputo.
John was the executive producer of Rob, a situation comedy starring Rob Schneider, which aired on the CBS television network in 2012, and co-produced the Academy Award-nominated 2012 feature film Hitchcock. He also serves as the personal manager of comedian, talk-show host and actor Tom Green, and creative consultant for Limp Bizkit frontman Fred Durst. Schneider produced Tom Green Live—the weekly talk show hosted by Green on entrepreneur/media mogul Mark Cuban's AXS TV channel—and is currently engaged in program development for CBS-TV, Showtime and The CW networks in conjunction with The Tannenbaum Company. In addition to his various production and management credits, John previously owned and operated the San Francisco nightclub DNA Lounge, and, at the age of 23, was elected to the Pacifica, California school board. He now resides in the Los Angeles area with his wife and three daughters.

Filmography
On the Road with Tom Green (TV special) (2015) - executive producer
Tom Green Live (2013) - executive producer
Hitchcock (2012) - co-producer
Rob (TV series) (2012) - executive producer
The Chosen One (2010) - producer
American Virgin (2009) - executive producer
Big Stan (2007) - producer
Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo (2005) - producer
The Hot Chick (2002) - producer
The Animal (2001) - co-producer
Passage 4:
Sarah Price (filmmaker)
Sarah Price (born 1970) is an American filmmaker, director and producer known for the feature documentary American Movie (1999 Winner of the Grand Jury Prize for Documentary at the Sundance Film Festival, released by Sony Pictures Classics).Price is a member of the Directors Guild of America.

Early life
Price spent the first five years of her life in London, England, her early school years in the American Midwest and East Coast, and later attended high school at the International Schools in Frankfurt, Germany and Nairobi, Kenya.  Price was educated at the University of Iowa.

Career
She directed Caesar's Park (2001 SXSW Int'l Film Fest, Sundance Channel), The Yes Men (2003 Toronto Int'l Film Festival, released by United Artist/MGM), and Summercamp! (2006 Toronto Int'l Film Fest, Sundance Channel). Price was also a cinematographer on The Yes Men Fix the World (2009 Sundance Film Fest/HBO), and a Co-Producer of Youssou N’dour: I Bring What I Love (2008 Toronto Int’l Fest).  In 2009, she expanded into commercial directing and is represented by Independent Media Inc.  Sarah further expanded into episodic television in 2014, directing The Carrie Diaries for Warner Brothers.
In 2016, Sarah Price's documentary film "L7: Pretend We're Dead" was first screened.  Price describes hearing a song by L7 while working as a DJ at her college radio station as the seed of her curiosity and interest in the group.  The film was nominated for the Jury Prize at the 2017 Hollywood Film Festival and for the Indiemusic Schweppes Award at the IndieLisboa International Independent Film Festival in 2018.  "L7: Pretend We're Dead" won the Jury Prize at the Bordeaux Rock - Musical Ecran in 2018.
Passage 5:
Registered Offender
Registered Offender is the debut comedy album by actor and stand-up comedian Rob Schneider.  Released in July 2010 by Oglio Records, it contains a mixture of sketches and songs, with all voices performed by Schneider.  The content is adult in nature and features various scatological references.  The album was recorded at various times and locations during 2007–2009.  A 7" vinyl single of the musical track "She's Gonna Come" b/w "Swain the Legend" was released simultaneously with the CD version of the album.

Background
"She's Gonna Come" features Schneider backed by a studio ensemble dubbed the Fabulous Dunderheads - which consists of members of the San Diego, CA-based alternative rock band The Night Marchers, led by former Rocket from the Crypt singer/guitarist John Reis.

Track listing
What I Want
Iraq Love
Yoko and Julian
She's Gonna Come
Swain the Legend
Virtual Kidnappers
Car Wash
The Perfect S--t
Agent for Porn Stars
Sex Offenders
The Liar Corp.
Welcome to the Jungle
Sea of J--z
Mom and Dad Party
Graduation Speech
Hidden Bonus Track
Passage 6:
Real Rob
Real Rob (stylized onscreen as REⱯL ROB) is an American streaming television sitcom created by Rob Schneider. It premiered on December 1, 2015, on Netflix, and follows the everyday life of Schneider, including his real-life wife Patricia and daughter Miranda. On July 27, 2016, the series was renewed for a second season, which premiered on September 29, 2017.

Cast
Main
Rob Schneider as himself
Patricia Schneider as herself, Rob's wife who is of Mexican descent and younger than he is.
Jamie Lissow as himself, Rob's incompetent assistant.
Miranda Scarlett Schneider as herself, introduced in the series as the 11-month-old daughter of Rob and Patricia.

Co-Starring
Max Amini as Stalker, a guy who watches Rob's every move.
Andrei Aldochine as Udo, a male stripper whom Patricia hires as their nanny.
Adam Korson as Andy, Rob's agent.

Also Starring
Kym Jackson as Margaret, Jamie's girlfriend who works at a marijuana store.
Keith Stubbs as Rob's Accountant.The series guest stars David Spade, Norm Macdonald, Adam Sandler, Michael Madsen, Danny Trejo, and George Lopez.

Episodes
Episodes were directed by Rob Schneider and written by Rob Schneider, Patricia Schneider and Jamie Lissow.

Season 1 (2015)
Season 2 (2017)
Reception
"Real Rob" was met with a largely negative response from critics. The show held a score of 36 on Metacritic based on 5 critic reviews, and a 0% rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 8 critic reviews.On February 20, 2016, Internet personality Arin Hanson voiced his frustrations regarding Real Rob on his daily Let's Play webseries Game Grumps. Hanson felt the show's main issue was that Schneider's character was both unlikable and unrelatable, going as far as to say that "it's a show with no demographic." While Hanson's overall feelings toward the show were negative, he stated that he felt compelled to keep watching and also praised the performance of Patricia Schneider, citing her as a legitimately funny presence. Schneider eventually saw Hanson's rant and later appeared as a special guest on the show along with Patricia on May 16, 2016.
Passage 7:
Rob Schneider
Robert Michael Schneider (; born October 31, 1963) is an American actor, stand-up comedian, screenwriter, producer, and director. After several years performing stand-up comedy, Schneider found wider success during his tenure as a cast member and writer for the NBC sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live from 1988 to 1994. Following his departure from SNL, he went on to a career in feature films, including starring roles in the comedy films Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo (1999) and its 2005 sequel, The Animal (2001), The Hot Chick (2002), The Benchwarmers (2006), and Big Stan (2007). Schneider is the father of singer Elle King.

Early life
Schneider was born in San Francisco, California on Halloween Day in 1963, and grew up in the nearby suburb of Pacifica. His parents were Pilar (née Monroe), a former kindergarten teacher and ex-school board president, and Marvin Schneider, a real estate broker. His father was Jewish and his mother was Catholic. Schneider's maternal grandmother was a Filipina who met and married his grandfather, a white American army private, while he was stationed in the Philippines. His mixed background has been a common theme throughout his career. Schneider graduated from Terra Nova High School in 1982 and then attended San Francisco State University. His older brother, John, is a producer.

Career
Early career
Schneider made his debut appearance on television in 1987, on HBO's 13th Annual Young Comedians special, which was hosted by comedian Dennis Miller.

Saturday Night Live
Schneider was part of the comedy team at NBC sketch comedy series Saturday Night Live (From 1990 to 1994 at SNL), he played such roles as "Tiny Elvis", "Orgasm Guy", Richard Laymer, the office worker beside the photocopier, who addressed each of his fellow employees with an endless stream of annoying gossip. Schneider is featured in the video release The Bad Boys of Saturday Night Live, along with colleagues Adam Sandler, Chris Rock, David Spade, and Chris Farley.

Recurring SNL characters
The Richmeister, an office worker who annoys people by giving them nicknames as they make copies.
Carlo, from the Il Cantore Restaurant sketches
The Sensitive Naked Man, a nude man who gives advice to other characters

Feature films, sitcoms, and endorsements
After leaving SNL, Schneider played supporting roles in a series of movies including Surf Ninjas, Judge Dredd, The Beverly Hillbillies, Home Alone 2: Lost in New York, Demolition Man, and Down Periscope. He also appeared in a recurring part on the television series Coach. In 1996, he co-starred in the NBC sitcom Men Behaving Badly, an American take on the hit British series of the same name. The U.S. version ran for two seasons.
Schneider starred in the 1999 feature film Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo, a tale of a fish-tank cleaner who incurs a massive debt and is forced to become a "man-whore." This was followed by The Animal, about a man given animal powers by a mad scientist; The Hot Chick, wherein the body of a petty thief named Clive Maxtone (played by Schneider) is mystically switched with the body of a pretty, but mean-spirited high school cheerleader named Jessica Spencer (played by Rachel McAdams in her film debut); and the sequel Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo. The latter movie was not well received by critics or moviegoers, and as a result, Schneider won a 2005 Worst Actor Razzie Award for his role in the film.In 2006, Schneider co-starred in the baseball-themed family comedy The Benchwarmers, along with his fellow SNL alumnus David Spade as well as Jon Heder. Other film roles include Schneider's appearance with Jim Henson's Muppets in the 1999 film Muppets from Space, and his role as a San Francisco hobo in the 2004 remake of Around the World in 80 Days.
Schneider's directorial debut, the comedy Big Stan, was released in some overseas markets during the fall of 2008, with a U.S. release in early 2009. In the film, he starred as a real estate con artist who is arrested for perpetrating real-estate scams. He is sentenced to prison, so he takes a crash-course in martial arts to survive incarceration.
Schneider has also appeared in numerous comedies starring his SNL comrade Adam Sandler, including 1998's The Waterboy, 2010's Grown Ups, and 2020's Hubie Halloween. The comedic characters Schneider plays in these films include an overly enthusiastic Cajun man who proclaims the catch-phrase, "You can do it!"; an amiable Middle Eastern delivery boy; a prison inmate; and Sandler's one-eyed Hawaiian sidekick, Ula. Schneider has uttered the line "You can do it!" as a running gag in Sandler's films The Waterboy, Little Nicky, 50 First Dates, The Longest Yard, and Bedtime Stories, as well as in a deleted scene from Click (a sample of Schneider saying the phrase also turns up in the song "Original Prankster" by The Offspring). Returning the favor, Sandler appeared in a cameo to spout the same line in Schneider's The Animal. Schneider narrated Sandler's 2002 animated movie Eight Crazy Nights, and voiced the part of a Chinese waiter. Schneider also had an uncredited cameo as a Canadian-Japanese wedding-chapel minister in the 2007 Sandler-Kevin James comedy I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry, and played a Palestinian cab driver who serves as the title character's nemesis in the 2008 Sandler film You Don't Mess with the Zohan.
Schneider played a variety of roles in the 2005 television special Back to Norm, starring another former SNL player Norm Macdonald, and appeared on episodes of the popular television shows Seinfeld and Ally McBeal. Schneider hosted the Sports Illustrated: Swimsuit '97 TV special, and the 2005 Teen Choice Awards, and was a frequent guest on NBC's late-night variety program The Tonight Show with Jay Leno. In Schneider's appearance with Leno on the July 24, 2007 episode of The Tonight Show, he showed up in drag as actress Lindsay Lohan after the latter cancelled following a controversial arrest for driving under the influence.Besides his efforts in movies and television, Schneider released his first comedy album Registered Offender in July 2010. Registered Offender is composed of audio sketches and songs, with Schneider himself doing all of the character voices on the recording. He also revived his stand-up comedy career in 2010 with an international tour of theaters, clubs, and casinos.Schneider appeared in the music video for country singer Neal McCoy's "Billy's Got His Beer Goggles On", as the song's title character. McCoy and Schneider met while the two went on a USO tour in support of U.S. troops two months after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
Schneider starred as the title character in the CBS sitcom Rob, which was loosely based on his real life. The series was canceled by CBS in May 2012.  In 2015, he produced, directed and starred in Real Rob, a sitcom that follows his life and includes his real-life wife Patricia and daughter Miranda. Netflix released a season of 8 episodes, and a second season in 2017.Schneider is the official celebrity spokesperson for the Taiwan Tourism Bureau and the Ten Ren Tea company in Taipei.Schneider was spokesperson for State Farm Insurance, but was dropped in 2014 due to his anti-vaccination views.In May 2016, Schneider was featured as a special guest on the Let's Play webseries Game Grumps, alongside his wife Patricia, commentating over Midway's Mortal Kombat Trilogy. They reappeared on the show in November 2017, then commentating over Konami's Contra.
In 2021, Schneider competed on season six of The Masked Singer as the wild card contestant "Hamster". A running gag is that "Hamster" would pantomime urinating on Nick Cannon and get affectionate with him. When unmasked on the fifth week, Schneider dedicated his performance of Luis Miguel's Sabor a Mí to Patricia and his daughters Miranda, Madeline, and Elle. In addition, Schneider did a variation of his Townie character's "You can do it" line by quoting Hamster's final words "You can do it Masked Singer, all night long!"
In 2022, he starred, produced, and directed in Daddy Daughter Trip, which served as his third film as a director and also starred his wife Patricia and daughter Miranda. The film will be exclusively shown in Harkins Theaters.

Personal life
Schneider has a daughter with former model London King, musician Elle King, who was born in 1989. On September 1, 2021, King gave birth to a son named Lucky, Schneider's first grandchild.In 1996, Schneider established the Rob Schneider Music Foundation. The foundation returned music education to Pacifica's elementary schools by paying the teachers' salaries and providing funds for instruments and other equipment. Prior to Schneider's efforts, the school system did not have music education programs for many years.Schneider once co-owned the DNA Lounge, a San Francisco nightclub.On April 23, 2011, Schneider married television producer Patricia Azarcoya Arce, in Beverly Hills, California. Their first child, Miranda Scarlett Schneider, was born in 2012. The couple had their second daughter, Madeline Robbie Schneider, in September 2016. The family supports Mexican soccer club Tigres, which is based in Patricia's hometown of Monterrey.

Political views and positions
In 2013, Schneider switched political parties from the Democratic Party to the Republican Party, explaining: "The state of California is a mess, and the super majority of Democrats is not working. I've been a lifelong Democrat and I have to switch over because it no longer serves the people of this great state."That same year, Schneider endorsed Republican Assemblyman Tim Donnelly for governor in the election the following year.In an interview on Larry King Now in 2017, Schneider said he was an independent but leaned more conservative.

Anti-vaccination activism
Schneider has been an outspoken critic of childhood vaccinations. In an interview with News10 in Sacramento, Schneider opined that "The efficacy of these shots have not been proven ... And the toxicity of these things – we're having more and more side effects. We're having more and more autism." Schneider's statements have been discredited as lacking any factual basis. He also views the actions from the state to mandate vaccinations as government overreach.Schneider has actively opposed the passage of two California laws, California Assembly Bill 2109 and California Senate Bill 277, which both intended to make childhood vaccination exemptions harder to obtain. On September 28, 2012, Schneider and California State Assemblyman Tim Donnelly spoke at the "Medical Freedom Rally", where they urged California Governor Jerry Brown to veto Assembly Bill 2109, which would have made it more difficult for parents to utilize philosophical reasons for exemptions from mandatory childhood vaccinations. While the bill was not vetoed, Governor Brown added a signing message instructing the Department of Health to add a religious exemption and to make sure the process is not overly burdensome to parents.In 2015, Schneider fought against California Senate Bill 277, which removed exemptions to mandatory vaccinations due to personal beliefs, even leaving a phone message to California state Assemblywoman and bill co-author Lorena Gonzalez saying that he would spend money against her in her next re-election. Gonzalez, in an interview with The Washington Times, said that she found the message to be disturbing, but upon calling back, she said, "he was actually much nicer to me, but let's be honest … that is 20 mins of my life I'll never get back arguing that vaccines don't cause autism with Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo. #vaccinateyourkids."

Filmography
Film
Television
Video games
Passage 8:
Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo
Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo is a 1999 American sex comedy film directed by Mike Mitchell and written by Harris Goldberg and Rob Schneider. The film stars Schneider in the title role, with William Forsythe, Eddie Griffin, and Arija Bareikis in supporting roles. The film tells the story of a hapless fishtank cleaner who goes into business as a male prostitute in an attempt to earn enough money to repair damage he caused while house-sitting. The film is notable for being the first film produced by Happy Madison Productions.
Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo was released in the United States on December 10, 1999, by Buena Vista Pictures. While the film received generally negative reviews from critics, it was a box office success, grossing over $92 million worldwide against a $17 million budget.A sequel, titled Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo, was released in August 2005 by Sony Pictures Releasing.

Plot
Deuce Bigalow, an insecure fishtank cleaner, is fired for cleaning the tank at a public aquarium while naked. Deuce is unsuccessful in attracting women, so he attempts to keep himself busy at work. On a house call, he meets the Argentinian male prostitute Antoine Laconte. Antoine is going on a business trip, and so asks Deuce to care for his sick lionfish and protect his home while he is away. Deuce accidentally sets Antoine's kitchen on fire when trying to make a grilled cheese sandwich in the toaster, and breaks an expensive fish tank, causing a lot of water damage.
Fearing Antoine will kill him (Antoine even tells him he will if he messes the place up), Deuce is forced to find a way to pay $6,000 for the damage. Low-rent pimp T.J. Hicks offers to help Deuce make enough money to buy a new fish tank, and convinces Deuce to take over the absent Antoine's role as a gigolo. Deuce decides to make the clients feel better about themselves since he only desires to have sex with beautiful women.
Deuce meets unusual clients but he still manages to get along with them, despite there being no sex involved, by helping them with certain issues in their lives. The clients include Carol, a woman who is severely narcoleptic; Ruth, who has Tourette syndrome with coprolalia, and therefore is afraid of socializing; Fluisa, a mannish obese woman weighing close to 750 pounds; and Tina, a woman that has a pituitary gland disorder and is extremely tall. Deuce's list of clients gradually increases, with each client being satisfied by much more fulfilling measures due to his personal attention and friendship. However, Deuce falls in love with one of his clients, Kate, who has a prosthetic leg. She later breaks up with Deuce when she finds out that he was a prostitute hired by her friends.
Meanwhile, Deuce is being stalked by Detective Chuck Fowler, who demands Antoine's "black book" of clients and threatens to take Deuce to jail if he does not comply. Deuce eventually helps Fowler please his wife by stripping and erotically dancing for her, and the two make amends. Deuce is still taken into custody on prostitution charges, as Fowler needs someone to bring in and Deuce refuses to betray his friend T.J. At the hearing, it is revealed that Deuce never slept with any of the clients except for Kate. Since Deuce gave back the money to Kate and was not paid for sex with her, he is cleared of all charges.
Using the money he made, Deuce restores Antoine's fish tank, although due to time constraints, he is warned that the glass may not be installed properly. Unfortunately, Kate's blind roommate accidentally kills the prize fish in Antoine's aquarium when she starts the mixer in which the fish was being kept. Deuce buys a replacement fish and returns to Antoine's house just before he returns. Antoine taps the new aquarium and the glass shatters. Deuce then reveals his prostituting adventures to the furious Antoine. Enraged, Antoine tries to kill Deuce and at one point shoots a crossbow bolt at him. Fluisa shows up, comes between the two men, and saves Deuce's life (she is not killed because the bolt hits her breasts, between which she has hidden a roast chicken). Antoine is then arrested by Detective Fowler and Deuce marries Kate.
The end sequences then follow. Deuce's father becomes a male prostitute. Fluisa underwent extensive liposuction and became a model in Victoria's Secret known as Naomi. Ruth opens up an all-girls school for people with Tourette's. Carol manages to fulfill her dream trip to France and dies falling off the Eiffel Tower. T.J. starts his own reality show dedicated to his experiences as a male prostitute. An incarcerated Antoine marries Tina.

Cast
Production
Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo was the first film released by the Happy Madison Productions film production company. Adam Sandler served as the film's executive producer. Sandler also starred behind the scenes and can be heard yelling the infamous "Freak!' line and other various lines in the background.

Soundtrack
"Call Me" - Blondie
"Spill the Wine" - Eric Burdon and War
"You Sexy Thing" - Hot Chocolate
"Get Down Tonight" - KC and the Sunshine Band
"Let's Get It On" - Marvin Gaye
"I'm Not in Love" - 10cc
"Magnet and Steel" - Walter Egan
"No Worries" - Hepcat
"Can't Smile Without You" - Sean Beal
"Lift Me Up" - Jeff Lynne
"Call Me" - Emilia Maiello

Release
Box office
Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo opened theatrically on December 10, 1999 in 2,154 venues and earned $12,224,016 in its opening weekend, ranking third in the North American box office behind Toy Story 2's fourth weekend and fellow newcomer The Green Mile. The film ended its run, having grossed $65,538,755 in the United States and Canada, and $27,400,000 overseas for a worldwide total of $92,938,755. Based on a $17 million budget, the film was a box office success.

Critical reception
Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo received negative reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, it has an approval rating of 22% based on 76 reviews, with an average rating of 4.01/10. The site's consensus states: "According to critics, Deuce Bigalow is just too dumb and filled with old, tired gags." On Metacritic it has a score of 30 out of 100 based on reviews from 26 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews". Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade B.Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film one-and-a-half out of four stars, stating "It's the kind of picture those View n' Brew theaters were made for, as long as you don't View." Kendall Morgan from The Dallas Morning News writes in her review, "Deuce Bigalow: Male Gigolo makes There's Something About Mary look like Masterpiece Theatre."

Sequel
In 2005, a sequel, Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo, was released by Sony Pictures Releasing.
Passage 9:
Rob (TV series)
Rob (stylized as ¡Rob!) is an American sitcom television series that premiered on CBS on January 12, 2012, at 8:30 pm (ET) as a mid-season replacement for Rules of Engagement, and ended on March 1, 2012. The series stars Rob Schneider alongside Cheech Marin, Claudia Bassols, Diana Maria Riva, Eugenio Derbez, Ricky Rico, and Lupe Ontiveros. The show was produced by Two and a Half Men's The Tannenbaum Company and CBS Productions.
On May 13, 2012, CBS canceled the series after one season.

Synopsis
The series follows Rob (Rob Schneider), a former lifelong bachelor and landscape architect with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder, who marries into a tight-knit Mexican American family and attempts to be closer to them, often ending in disastrous results despite his good intentions.

Cast and characters
Rob Schneider as Rob
Claudia Bassols as Maggie, Rob's much-younger wife
Cheech Marin as Fernando, Maggie's cynical father
Diana Maria Riva as Rosa, Maggie's wise cracking and sarcastic mother who sees through all of Fernando's ploys
Eugenio Derbez as Hector, Rosa's brother, Maggie's uncle, and the self-proclaimed "best friend" of Rob
Lupe Ontiveros as Abuelita, Fernando's mother and Maggie's grandmother

Production
The pilot first appeared on CBS's development slate in October 2010. On February 4, 2011, CBS placed a pilot order, written by Rob Schneider and Lew Morton, and directed by Jamie Widdoes. The series' executive producers were Schneider, Morton, and Kim and Eric Tannenbaum. The series then premiered January 12, 2012, and concluded on March 1, 2012, after eight episodes.

Episodes
U.S. Nielsen ratings
International broadcast
In Canada, the series airs on Global and premiered on January 19, 2012, after The Office.

Reception
Reviews for Rob were generally unfavorable. Jace Lacob of The Daily Beast described it as CBS's "worst new show" and wrote of the first episode that "there isn’t a single Latin name among the writers or producers" and that it "offers a wafer-thin appreciation and awareness of Mexican culture, one that doesn’t go beyond guacamole and the occasional use of the Spanish endearment mija (my daughter)." Robert Bianco of USA Today wrote in his review that "Some of this barrage of stereotypes might be passable if even one character were intelligently written and skillfully played, but there's hardly a moment or performance in Rob that doesn't reek of the leftover and the second-rate" and that "Schneider's the only actor who even seems to be trying." In a more positive review, Glenn Garvin of The Miami Herald wrote in his review that the show is a "rather funny sitcom about the cultural collisions that occur every day in an increasingly blended America". The show received a 28/100 rating on Metacritic.

Season ratings
Passage 10:
The Hot Chick
The Hot Chick is a 2002 American fantasy comedy film written and directed by Tom Brady, with additional writing by Rob Schneider. Schneider stars as Clive Maxtone, a middle-aged criminal who switches bodies with mean-spirited cheerleader Jessica Spencer, played by Rachel McAdams. Anna Faris stars as Jessica's best friend, April, and Matthew Lawrence plays Jessica's steady boyfriend. 
Adam Sandler served as executive producer and has a small role in the film as the Mambuza Bongo Player, a character based on one played by Schneider in a Saturday Night Live sketch. Sisters Tia and Tamera Mowry and singers Ashlee Simpson, Angie Stone, and Michelle Branch also had small roles. Parts of the film were shot at Redondo Union High School and El Segundo High School. The film was a moderate box office success, but received negative reviews from critics who criticized the jokes and Schneider's performance.

Plot
In 50 BC, in an Abyssinian castle, the princess Nawa uses a pair of enchanted earrings to escape an arranged marriage by swapping bodies with a slave girl. When each woman wears one of the earrings, their bodies are magically swapped while their minds remain in place.
In her modern-day suburban home, Jessica Spencer is a beautiful but mean-spirited "hot chick". Her closest friends are April, Keecia, and Lulu. April is Jessica's best friend, and all four girls are cheerleaders. At school one day, Jessica makes fun of an overweight girl named Hildenburg and a Wiccan girl named Eden. After that, she and her friends visit the local mall, where Jessica gets her rival Bianca into trouble and finds the earrings in an African-themed store. The earrings are not for sale, so Jessica steals them.
Shortly afterward, small-time criminal Clive Maxtone robs a nearby gas station. When Jessica and her friends stop there and mistake him for an employee, he services their car to avoid raising suspicion. She accidentally drops one of the earrings on the ground, the girls drive away, and Clive picks up the earring. That evening, in their respective homes, Jessica and Clive put on their earrings. When they wake up the next morning, each of them is trapped in the other's body. This is especially difficult for Jessica, who has a cheering competition and the school prom coming up soon.
After Jessica convinces her friends of who she is, they help her investigate the body swap. Hildenburg, Eden, and Bianca are all innocent, Hildenburg and Eden join Jessica after she apologizes to them, and Eden finds a picture of the earrings on the internet. When the girls return to the African store, the owner explains how the earrings work and tells the girls they must find the other earring soon or the change will become permanent.
Meanwhile, Jessica is hired for two jobs while secretly living with April. At her own home, where she works as a gardener, her parents tell her about their marital problems and she helps them rekindle their sex life. 
At school, while cleaning the boys' locker room as a custodian, she spies on her boyfriend Billy, who truly loves her, and April's boyfriend Jake, who has been cheating on her. Faced with Jake's infidelity, April begins to fall in love with Jessica, who agrees to take her to the prom. 
At the cheering competition, Jessica signals romantically to Billy while disguised as the school mascot, but when the head of her suit falls off, he becomes confused and leaves with Bianca. 
Jessica goes to the prom with April and they kiss. Jake sees this and is so upset, he spills his drink on his date. April confesses to being in love with Jessica, who tells April she is perfect and doesn't need anybody. Jessica tries to win Billy back, telling Billy it's her in Clive's body, but he is so shocked and confused that he runs off. 
During this time, Clive has been using Jessica's body to make money from men, including Billy, who gives him his money and car, believing he is Jessica. Clive then tries to run him over. On the evening of the prom, Hildenburg sees a video of Clive in Jessica's body robbing a man on the TV news, goes to the scene of the crime, and finds a business card for the club where Clive works as a pole dancer. She informs Jessica at the prom, and the girls go to the club. 
When they find Clive, Jessica steals his earring and puts it on herself along with the other one. With both earrings now on the same person, Jessica's and Clive's bodies return to their original owners.
After Jessica makes up with Billy, the film ends with the school's graduation ceremony, followed by a scene in which Clive, running from the law and still dressed in lingerie and handcuffs, is picked up by a bartender who believes he is a homosexual. The bartender turns around slowly with a sinister smile on his face to look at Clive, and locks the doors. Clive screams in horror.

Cast
Wes Takahashi, former animator and visual effects supervisor for Industrial Light & Magic, makes a cameo appearance as a news reporter. Schneider's mother Pilar appears as a judge of the cheerleading contest.

Production
Filming took place at University High School in West Los Angeles. Speaking on the film, Schneider commented: "No man is a hundred-percent masculine and no woman is a hundred-percent feminine – we're all just somewhere on the scale there. So what I tried to do was just play it with an innocence and gentleness, and then find some physical keys to lock-in on."

Casting
Singers Ashlee Simpson and Michelle Branch each make their feature film debut with cameo roles.

Soundtrack
Release
The Hot Chick was originally rated R, but several scenes were edited out in order to receive the broader PG-13 rating. The R version was classified 12A in Britain, maintaining the same rating given to the PG-13 theatrical version.

Reception
Box office
The film opened at #5 at the U.S. box office on the weekend of December 13–15, 2002, taking in US$7,401,146, averaging $3,338 across the 2,217 theatres where it was shown. It went on to earn a total worldwide gross of $54,639,553.

Critical response
The Hot Chick received negative reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, the film had an approval rating of 21% based on reviews from 82 critics, with an average score of 3.90/10. The critical consensus read: "The Hot Chick's one-note concept gets stretched thin, and a lot of the jokes fall flat." On Metacritic, as of October 2020, the film had a score of 29 out 100 based on reviews from 22 critics, indicating "generally unfavorable reviews". Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade B+ on scale of A to F.Roger Ebert and Richard Roeper gave the film two thumbs way down. Ebert gave the film half a star (out of a possible four), declaring, "The MPAA rates this PG-13. It is too vulgar for anyone under 13, and too dumb for anyone over 13." Roeper panned the film saying "it's in color. And, it was mostly in focus."Dennis Harvey of Variety magazine wrote: "At best routinely assembled—at worst barely competent. The slapstick is labored, and the bigger setpieces flat."

Accolades
Rob Schneider was nominated for a Razzie Award for Worst Actor of the Decade for his performance in the film.

Home media
The Hot Chick was released May 13, 2003 on VHS and DVD. The DVD featured the deleted scenes that would have made the film an R, including an alternate ending.

See also
Freaky Friday  (1976)
Big (1988)
Body swaps in films