Passage 1:
John Fulton (instrument maker)
John Fulton (1803–1853) was a Scottish instrument maker who originally trained as a cobbler. He built three orrerys in a workshop attached to at his home, now demolished, in the Kirton Brae area of Fenwick and was eventually appointed instrument maker to King William IV, moving to London, but retiring to Fenwick. He is buried in the Fenwick Kirk graveyard.

Life
It is recorded that John's father, also a cobbler, was a subscribing member to the library set up in the village by the Fenwick Weavers. With access to this library, John pursued his interest in astronomy, mathematics, physics, and other disciplines that led to his career as an instrument maker of outstanding ability and achievement. Largely self-taught, he studied botany, learned several foreign languages, constructed a ‘velocipede’ or early bicycle, and experimented with the production of coal gas. He had left school at the age of 13.

Orrerys
Astronomy held a particular fascination for him, so much so that he was prompted to construct, in his spare time in the years between 1823 and 1833, three working models of the solar system, known as orrerys. The third of these is now on display in Glasgow's Kelvingrove Art Gallery and Museum: it was the most intricate and took him four years to finish. It measured 1000mm x 3000mm x 3000mm. Entirely his own work, it has 175 wheels and more than 200 moving parts and is acknowledged to be one of the best in the world. The Society of Arts, who awarded him a silver medal, calculated that his third orrery was the most perfect built up to that time.Fulton took the orrery on a tour of the United Kingdom. Such was the public interest that in 1869 a group of Glasgow businessmen led by William Walker bought the orrery for the city. It was brought up from London and then toured around Glasgow schools and museums until the 1930s when it found a more permanent home in the Old Glasgow Museum.A local story relates that Fulton 'borrowed' his grandmother’s candlesticks and melted them down to provide the brass for his first orrery model.

John Fulton Memorial Hall
This is the public meeting hall for Fenwick, maintained by East Ayrshire Council. It was previously the Guthrie Memorial Free Church of 1844, and following a worldwide fund raising campaign sufficient funds had been raised by 1919 and the hall was opened in 1920. The hall is a Category C listed building.
Passage 2:
Davie Fulton
Edmund Davie Fulton,  (March 10, 1916 – May 22, 2000) was a Canadian Rhodes Scholar, politician and judge. He was born in Kamloops, British Columbia, the son of politician/lawyer Frederick John Fulton and Winnifred M. Davie, daughter of A. E. B. Davie. He was the youngest of 4 children.

Military career
Davie Fulton served in the Second World War with the Canadian Army overseas as Platoon and Company Commander with Seaforth Highlanders of Canada, and as Deputy Assistant Adjutant-General with the 1st Canadian Infantry Division in the Italian and Northwestern Europe campaigns. His brother John "Moose" Fulton distinguished himself in the Royal Canadian Air Force during World War II. He went missing in action in late 1942, and in 1943  Kamloops adopted the Moose Squadron in honour of its commander. In 1944 the Kamloops airport was dedicated as Fulton Field.

Political career
He was brought home from the war by the Conservative Party and won a seat by 100 votes in the House of Commons of Canada in the 1945 general election.
In 1949 he introduced legislation to criminalize the publication, distribution, and sale of crime comics, as the result of a murder by two Yukon teens that was blamed on the influence of the crime comics which the perpetrators had read.He ran for the leadership of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada at the 1956 leadership convention, placing third behind John Diefenbaker.
When Diefenbaker led the party to victory in the 1957 election, he appointed Fulton to Cabinet as Minister of Justice. As Minister, Fulton was involved in negotiations to patriate the Canadian Constitution, and developed the "Fulton–Favreau formula". In 1962, he became Minister of Public Works. His cousin, Albert McPhillips, was Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Fisheries around this time.
He resigned from Cabinet in 1963, when he decided to leave federal politics and take the leadership of the British Columbia Progressive Conservative Party. His efforts to revive the provincial Tories in BC were a failure, and he returned to the House of Commons in the 1965 election.
Fulton stood as a candidate at the 1967 federal PC leadership convention, and placed third behind Robert Stanfield and Dufferin Roblin.
After losing his seat in the 1968 election, he retired from politics and returned to the law. In 1973, he became a justice on the British Columbia Supreme Court, and served until 1981. From 1986 to 1992, he served as a commissioner on the International Joint Commission.
In 1992, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada. He died in Vancouver on May 22, 2000.

Election results
Archives
There is a Davie Fulton fonds at Library and Archives Canada.
Passage 3:
Harry the Kid
Harry Head (died 1881) (known as Harry the Kid), was a cattle rustler and stagecoach robber. One of his better known robberies occurred outside Contention City, a boomtown in the Arizona Territory.

Drew Station Stagecoach Robbery
On March 15, 1881, Head and three of his known Cowboy companions, Bill Leonard, Jim Crane, and Luther King, were set to rob a Wells Fargo stagecoach. The monetary gain, however, wasn't the only motive for robbing the stagecoach. Killing Bob Paul was reportedly a secondary objective. Paul had been sent out with the stagecoach to prevent robberies from occurring, riding shotgun. Two well-known local families during the time, the Clantons and the Earps, are rumored to have had an interest in trying to kill Paul.The coach was carrying 26,000 dollars and eight passengers. Twelve miles from the stagecoach's final destination, Paul changed seats with the driver of the stagecoach, which temporarily brought the stagecoach to a halt. Shortly after the change of seats the stagecoach came to a part of the road that had a very steep grade. This was where Head and the others laid in ambush. In order to conceal their identities, the stagecoach robbers wore wigs and false beards. Crane fired at the guard’s seat, which was where Paul should have been sitting, but the driver, Budd Philpot, was killed instead. Philpot fell forward into the horses pulling the stagecoach, causing them to charge forward. By this time Paul had drawn his weapon and had started to return fire, and he wounded Leonard. During the gunfight, a passenger named Pete Roerig was killed. Paul gained control of the stagecoach and brought the rest of the passengers to safety.

Possible Doc Holliday involvement
There was talk that Doc Holliday was involved in the stagecoach robbery. He was at the time living in the nearby city of Tombstone and was known to visit the local hacienda were the suspects reportedly had camped a week before the attack. Holliday claimed that he had a sufficient alibi and that he was in no way involved in the robbery. But in July a warrant was sworn out for his arrest. Holliday was taken into custody and questioned but was later released on bond. Four days later his case was dismissed for insufficient evidence.

Aftermath
After the ambush on the Wells Fargo stagecoach, Paul and Wyatt Earp, started an investigation. They put a price on the heads of those that were involved in the ambush and set it at 2,000 dollars dead or alive. Paul should have notified the local sheriff immediately after the incident occurred, however; the sheriff at the time, Johnny Behan, was known to be a "...friend of the [Cowboy] element." As the manhunt for the perpetrators of the Drew Station Stagecoach robbery continued, it was soon discovered that Head and several of his companions had managed to flee across the Mexican border.The investigation initially resulted in the arrest of Luther King, who was held under suspicion of being one of the robbers. King went peaceably even though he had "...a Winchester, two six-shooters, and twenty boxes of cartridges..." with him. He did, however, quickly escape from jail. Before escaping, King stated he had only been there to hold the horses, but had also revealed that his accomplices were Harry "the Kid" Head, Billy Leonard, and Jim Crane.

Death
Head and Leonard were able to elude capture for several months. After three months, however, they attempted a robbery at a store in Eureka, New Mexico. The owners of the store, Bill and Ike Haslett, fought back and killed the two outlaws. Afterward, Crane, along with Curly Bill Brocius, Frank Stilwell, Pony Diehl, Pete Spence, and at least five other men, hunted down the Haslett brothers.
Passage 4:
List of The Dillinger Escape Plan band members
The Dillinger Escape Plan (DEP) was an American metalcore band from Morris Plains, New Jersey. Formed in early 1997, the group originally featured vocalist Dimitri Minakakis, lead guitarist Ben Weinman, rhythm guitarist Derek Brantley, bassist and keyboardist Adam Doll, and drummer and keyboardist Chris Pennie. The group remained active until December 2017, at which point the lineup featured Weinman (the band's only constant member), bassist Liam Wilson (who replaced Doll in 2000), vocalist Greg Puciato (who replaced Minakakis in 2001), drummer Billy Rymer (who joined in 2009) and rhythm guitarist Kevin Antreassian (who joined in 2015).
DEP evolved from an earlier hardcore punk group called Arcane in March 1997, and originally featured Minakakis, Weinman, Brantley, Doll and Pennie. Brantley left after just two shows, failing to turn up for the group's first recording sessions. The remaining members were forced to record the band's self-titled debut extended play (EP) for Now or Never Records as a four-piece. Shortly after the EP's release, Brantley's position was taken over by John Fulton, who performed on tour with the group later in the year. In 1998, the band released its second EP Under the Running Board, shortly after which Fulton left due to "creative differences". He was replaced by Jesuit guitarist Brian Benoit in time for the recording of the group's full-length debut album Calculating Infinity.Just before the recording of Calculating Infinity started, Doll was involved in a road traffic accident in which he suffered a spinal fracture which paralyzed him from the chest down; he was forced to step back from the band, and Weinman performed bass on the album. After the album was finished, Doll was replaced by former M.O.D. bassist Jeff Wood, who was credited in the liner notes as "live bass machine". Wood toured with the group until autumn 2000, when he was replaced by Liam Wilson. In April 2001, it was announced that Minakakis had decided to leave DEP to pursue "non-music related endeavors". Before hiring a replacement, the group worked with former Faith No More and Mr. Bungle frontman Mike Patton on the EP Irony Is a Dead Scene, released the following year.

In October 2001, DEP announced that Greg Puciato was the band's new frontman, chosen from "over one hundred" singers who auditioned by submitting a recording of "43% Burnt". The new lineup's first release was Miss Machine, issued in 2004 as the follow-up to Calculating Infinity. Benoit underwent "major surgery" in December that year, and the next April suffered nerve damage in his left hand which rendered him unable to play guitar. He briefly tried to remain in the band on keyboards, but by May had left the band completely. James Love, formerly of Fenix TX, took his place on rhythm guitar at Benoit's own blessing. In 2006, the band released the digital-only EP Plagiarism, which featured "Unretrofied" in addition to four cover versions and a live recording of "The Perfect Design".During a tour in August 2006, the band performed four shows without lead guitarist Ben Weinman for the first time, who it was announced had flown home to "deal with some personal issues". However, in subsequent interviews Weinman claimed that he had in fact briefly left the group due to various issues, including frustration with an arm injury he had suffered, as well as tensions with bandmates. During the four shows without Weinman, DEP drummer Chris Pennie was offered the role of drummer in Coheed and Cambria, however he was contractually obliged to remain with the group. After the shows, Jeff Tuttle replaced Love.By June 2007, Pennie had officially left the band to join Coheed and Cambria, with drums on the upcoming album Ire Works recorded by Gil Sharone. The following month, Tuttle was officially unveiled as the band's new guitarist, although Weinman recorded all guitars on the album. The following year, rumors began to circulate that Sharone had left the band, although Weinman initially denied them. Early the next year, however, his departure was confirmed and Billy Rymer had taken his place. In 2010, the band released its fourth album Option Paralysis, which was the first to feature contributions from guitarist Tuttle.In August 2012, at the end of the touring cycle for Option Paralysis, Tuttle announced that he was leaving the band to attend film school. By November, he had been replaced by returning member James Love, although he did not feature on 2013's One of Us Is the Killer as Weinman described him as "a live guy". Love remained until May 2015, when he was replaced by Kevin Antreassian. In 2016, the group released its sixth studio album Dissociation, shortly after which they announced that they would be disbanding after the album's touring cycle. The tour came to an end with three final shows in December 2017, at which former members Dimitri Minakakis, Brian Benoit and Adam Doll, plus Irony Is a Dead Scene vocalist Mike Patton, made special guest appearances.

Members
Latest
Former
Touring
Timeline
Lineups
Passage 5:
Buck English
Buck English (1855 – January 15, 1915) was an American Old West outlaw, and one of Lake County, California's most notorious thieves and stagecoach robbers toward the end of the 19th century.

Early life
Born Lawrence Buchanen English in Oregon, he soon received the nickname "Buck". The English family feuded with the Durbin family for years, which led to three of Buck's brothers dying. When Buck was thirteen, he became obligated to take revenge on the Durbin family. Unlike Black Bart, Lake County's other notorious thief, Buck was rash and openly flaunted his overconfident capacity.
He was only 22 years old when he and a companion held up the Lower Lake stage coach and took the Wells Fargo strongbox from the driver. Instead of the usual gold or silver for the miners, the box yielded only two brass castings. The local newspaper later said, "Shortly before this robbery, he and his companion met four Chinese miners coming down from the Great Western Mine (near Middletown), and robbed them of their watches and money."

Territory
Wells Fargo strongboxes were often the target of stagecoach robbers in Middletown. After the mid-19th century, the payroll money was brought in on the stagecoach with an armed guard beside the driver. Not all of the holdups in the area were the doing of Buck and his gang, although he was a scourge to the local vicinity for a number of years. Buck worked the road near Mountain Hill House, south of Middletown, or near the double bridge north of Middletown near Lower Lake. For 20 years, Buck roamed the countryside, making little effort to hide his identity or his disreputable enterprise.

Duel
Buck walked the streets of Middletown with a six-shooter strapped to his side, daring any who insulted his authority to a contest. One day, he ran into Captain Good on the main street, and harsh words were exchanged. Later in the day, they met again, and this time it was a shooting affair, with Buck emerging unscathed. The captain was seriously wounded in the arm and legs. In another unrelated incident, Buck shot and killed a man in the Middletown skating rink, turning the arena into a scene of pandemonium.

After jail time
After his release from San Quentin in 1882, Buck returned to Middletown. Soon after his arrival, the Lebree store in town was robbed of some watches and jewelry.
Buck left Middletown for a few years, but upon his return, he showed he had not changed. It was not long before he held up the stage at the foot of Mount Saint Helena, near the summer home of the mayor of San Francisco. The six passengers were ordered out of the stage, and stripped of their possessions. Buck made no effort to hide his identity. He greeted the driver of a passing wagon, who quickly drove on when he realized a robbery was in progress.

Capture
This occurred on May 7, 1895. A posse was formed and they set off to capture Buck. They discovered him on a stagecoach going from Monticello to Napa, and a wild chase ensued. The San Francisco Examiner reported the next day:

One of the robbers jumped to the horses ahead and leveled his guns. He waved weapons and spouted profanity, all the while threatening to "blow" the driver off of the seat. The two robbers were armed with old style Colt revolvers, and he cursed at everyone, especially the Chinamen
The capture of Buck by Sheriff Bell reads like a Wild West novel. He was so badly wounded and had lost so much blood that many thought he would not survive. He did recover, however, and returned to San Quentin to serve yet another sentence.Buck was not as well known as Black Bart and other Western gunmen of the time, but he created fear wherever he went. Although he was arrested for his robberies and attacks on the general population, Buck had his hands in many other criminal activities, including cattle rustling, which he served less than a year in jail for.

Later life
Buck ended up living long enough to enjoy freedom again after his release from prison. He died in San Francisco on January 15, 1915 of natural causes, unlike his brothers, all of whom all died violent deaths.
Passage 6:
Bill Miner
Ezra Allen Miner (December 27, 1846 – September 2, 1913), more popularly known as Bill Miner, was an American bandit, originally from Bowling Green, Kentucky, who served several prison terms for stagecoach robbery. Known for his unusual politeness while committing robberies, he was widely nicknamed the Grey Fox, Gentleman Robber or the Gentleman Bandit. He is reputed to have been the originator of the phrase "Hands up!" Legend has it that Bill Miner admonished his cohorts to fire their guns when in danger of capture but "do not kill a man".

Life
Miner was born Ezra Allen Miner in Vevay Township, near Onondaga, Ingham County, Michigan on December 27, 1846. He never legally changed his first name (which he evidently didn't like), but regarded William Allen Miner as his true name throughout most of his life. He was arrested for the first time in 1866 in San Joaquin County, California and served time there. He was shortly released but served more time at Placer County, California and later at Calaveras County, California. He was discharged in 1880. He then formed a partnership with Bill Leroy (as W. A. Morgan) to rob a stagecoach. Leroy was caught and lynched, but Miner escaped. He was later caught for another robbery in Tuolumne County, California and was released from San Quentin in 1901.After his third prison term, Miner moved to the province of British Columbia in Canada, where he adopted the pseudonym George Edwards and is believed to have staged British Columbia's first-ever train robbery on September 10, 1904 at Silverdale about 35 kilometres (22 mi) east of Vancouver, just west of Mission City. It is often claimed that Miner was the robber, but neither he nor his accomplices were ever tied conclusively to the Silverdale heist. It is also widely reported that Silverdale's train robbery was the first in Canada, but Peter Grauer's definitive study ("Interred With Their Bones", 2005) cites a train robbery in Port Credit, Ontario 30 years prior as the first.Miner was eventually caught after a botched payroll train robbery near Kamloops at Monte Creek (then known as "Ducks"). Choosing the wrong car, they managed only to rob $15 plus a bottle of kidney pills that Miner picked up off of a shelf. Miner and his two accomplices, Tom "Shorty" Dunn and Louis Colquhoun, were located near Douglas Lake, British Columbia after an extensive manhunt. A posse surrounded them while they were lunching in the woods. Miner presented himself as George Edwards and claimed that he and his cohorts were prospectors. The officer in charge of the posse suspected he had encountered the nefarious train-robbing gang and challenged the claim, putting them under arrest.Dunn attempted to fire at the police and was shot in the leg. He gave up quickly after being wounded. Colquhoun was disarmed by an officer standing nearby and Miner never drew his weapon. Miner's arrest and subsequent trial in Kamloops caused a media spectacle. Apparently the most damning evidence against him was the bottle of kidney pills that Miner had picked up during the Ducks robbery. Upon his conviction, he, Dunn and Colquhoun were transported by train to the provincial penitentiary in New Westminster. By that time, Miner's celebrity status had risen to the point that the tracks were reputedly lined with throngs of supporters, many of whom expressed satisfaction with the fact that someone had taken the very unpopular Canadian Pacific Railway to task.While serving time in the B.C. Penitentiary, Miner escaped in 1907 and was never recaptured in Canada. He moved back to the United States, becoming once again involved in robberies in the South at Gainesville in 1909. There, he served more prison time, and escaped twice.He died in the prison farm at Milledgeville, Georgia, of gastritis, contracted from drinking brackish water during his previous escape attempt.

Legacy
Miner's time in British Columbia propelled his celebrity there in many ways since. British Columbia restaurant chain, the Keg Steakhouse & Bar, have named drinks and their Billy Miner Pie after the train robber. Their early decor also showed many photos of Miner.A mural depicting Miner's robbery near Monte Creek has been painted on the exterior south wall of Cactus Jacks Saloon & Dance Hall located in the building at the corner of 5th Avenue & Lansdowne Street in Kamloops, British Columbia.Maple Ridge, British Columbia features the Billy Miner Pub which is located in historic Port Haney on the bank of the Fraser River. The pub is located in the original Bank Of Montreal building built in the early 1900s.It has been speculated that Miner left a hidden cache of loot in the forests south of Silverdale after the first robbery and local historians believe he used these monies to fund his escape, while others surmise that today there is still hidden loot to be found there.An original song titled "The Ballad of Bill Miner" was written by singer/songwriter Phillip Mills (Eugene Quinn) and recorded by the San Francisco bay area band "The Blackout Cowboys".
Miner was the subject of the 1982 Canadian film The Grey Fox, in which he was played by Richard Farnsworth.
Miner is buried in Memory Hill Cemetery in Milledgeville, Georgia. It was discovered that his headstone was in the wrong location, name spelled wrong, and with the wrong year of his death. A new headstone was put in the correct spot and spelled correctly. The old one was kept where it was.Mount Miner near Princeton, formerly Bald Mountain or Baldy, was renamed in Bill Miner's honor in response to a motion by the Princeton Board of Trade in 1952. Miner had lived on the ranch owned by Jack Budd, which was on the other side of this mountain from Princeton, while planning the robbery at Ducks. Billy's Restaurant in Princeton, British Columbia is also named after him.
Tin Whistle Brewing Co. a microbrewery from Penticton B.C. launched a Red Ale titled "Hands Up!" as a commemoration to Miner.
His principal biography is The Grey Fox: The True Story of Bill Miner, Last of the Old Time Bandits, by Mark Dugan and John Boessenecker (Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1992).
In 2014, thieves stole Miner's watch from the Royal BC Museum in Victoria. The watch, along with the several others were recovered by the Victoria Police and the thieves arrested by the Port Alberni RCMP.
Passage 7:
The Grey Fox
The Grey Fox is a 1982 Canadian biographical Western film directed by Phillip Borsos and written by John Hunter. It is based on the true story of Bill Miner, an American stagecoach robber who staged his first Canadian train robbery on 10 September 1904. The film stars Richard Farnsworth as Miner. The cast also features Jackie Burroughs, Ken Pogue, Wayne Robson, Gary Reineke and Timothy Webber.

Plot
Stagecoach robber Bill Miner is caught and sent to prison for 33 years.  He is finally released in 1901.  He wanders around, a man out of place in the new century, until he sees one of the first films, The Great Train Robbery, and is inspired to copy it in real life.  After a couple of unsuccessful attempts, he successfully robs a train and hides from the law in a mining town in British Columbia, becoming a respectable resident. There, he meets and falls in love with early feminist and photographer Katherine Flynn.  He considers settling down with her, but one last robbery proves to be his downfall.  True to his nickname, the Grey Fox escapes from prison as the ending credits start.

Cast
Production
According to Farnsworth, the "picture company" was the only one ever allowed to film at Fort Steele, British Columbia, a heritage site. The Grey Fox was also filmed on the British Columbia Railway / Pacific Great Eastern Railway, now run by Canadian National Railway, between Pemberton and Lillooet, British Columbia, and the  Lake Whatcom Railway between Wickersham and Park, Washington. The capture sequence was shot a quarter of a mile from where Miner was actually caught. Miner's gun, "a .41 Bisley Colt", was obtained from a collector and used by Farnsworth in close-ups.The film was funded by selling 696 units for $5,000 each to investors, and it was edited in 1981 before a distributor was found. Phillip Borsos was paid $45,000 to direct the film. The film was shot from 7 October to 28 November 1980, and had a budget of $3,480,000 (equivalent to $11,199,273 in 2021), but cost $4,500,000 (equivalent to $14,481,818 in 2021) to make.

Release
The film was shown at the Taormina Film Fest in June 1982, and was released in Toronto on 16 December 1982. It grossed over $6 million at the box office in its first year.

Awards
The Grey Fox has been designated and preserved as a "masterwork" by the Audio-Visual Preservation Trust of Canada, a charitable non-profit organization dedicated to promoting the preservation of Canada’s audio-visual heritage.At the 4th Genie Awards in 1983, The Grey Fox was nominated for thirteen awards and won seven:

Best Picture
Best Director (Borsos)
Best Foreign Actor (Farnsworth)
Best Supporting Actress (Burroughs)
Best Original Screenplay (Hunter)
Best Art Direction (Bill Brodie)
Best Musical Score (Michael Conway Baker)Further recognition for Farnsworth included a Golden Globe Award nomination for Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Drama.
It has also been listed in the Toronto International Film Festival's TIFF List of Canada's Top Ten Films of All Time in 1984 and 1993.

Critical reaction
Roger Ebert praised the film as "a lovely adventure" and gave it 31⁄2 stars. Rotten Tomatoes gave it a rare 100% fresh rating.

Restoration and re-release
The film underwent a 4K restoration and was re-released to theatres In April 2020. It also saw its first official release to DVD and Blu-Ray, which included a commentary by filmmaker Alex Cox, interview with producer Peter O'Brian, and a featurette about the restoration.
Passage 8:
Douglas Burrows
Douglas Squire Irving Burrows CBE (Civil) MBE (Military) (7 August 1915 –  10 December 1982) was an Australian stock broker, businessman and philanthropist who from 1970 until his death was President of the Board Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children. With Lorimer Dods and John Fulton he co-founded the Children's Medical Research Foundation of which from 1970 he became the Chairman of the Management Committee.

Early life
Burrows was born in Sydney, the son of Rita (née Squire) and Harry Irving Burrows. He was educated at Newington College (1932–1934) and rowed in the 1st IV at the GPS Head of the River in 1933 and 1934. In 1934 he was stroke of the crew.  Burrows was Captain of 1st Rifle Shooting Team in 1934. Under his captaincy, the team were GPS Premiers that year and won the Earl Roberts Trophy.

Working life
Upon finishing school, Burrows gained employment with the chartered accounting firm Priestley & Morris. He stayed with the firm until the beginning of World War II and at war's end rejoined them briefly before joining A J Dawson as an Accountant. In 1951, Burrows became a Member of the Sydney Stock Exchange as a partner of Ernest L Davis & Co. He later served as a director of A J Dawson Ltd, and as Deputy Chairman of Edward Lumley Ltd, Security Life Assurance Ltd and Security & General Insurance Company Ltd.

War service
In 1939, Burrows enlisted in the Australian Army and travelled with the first group of enlisted men on the first boat to leave after the beginning of the war. He served in North Africa, Greece and eventually in New Guinea on the Kokoda Track. As Major Douglas Burrows, he became Deputy Assistant Adjutant General of the Australian 6th Division. In that role he was responsible for co-ordinating the ceremony for the signing of surrender documents by Lieutenant General Hatazō Adachi, Commander of the Japanese 18th Army in New Guinea. After signing the unconditional surrender, Adachi presented his sword to the General Officer Commanding, 6th Division, Major General Horace Robertson. Adachi's aide then surrendered his sword to Burrows and this weapon remains with the Burrows family to this day. On 14 February 1946 he was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire in the Military Division for his war service.

Marriage and family
On 15 August 1942, whilst on a few days army leave, Burrows married Valma Ashcroft who had modelled for advertisements, the Australian Wool Board and women's magazines including covers for The Australian Women's Weekly. They had three children; Mark Douglas Burrows AO; Peter Irving Burrows AO; and Tina Burrows. During their married life, the Burrows were residents of St Ives, New South Wales.

Children's Hospital
In 1952, Burrows joined the board of the Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children. He served as Treasurer (1959–66) and Vice-President (1966–70) before becoming President and serving in that role for eleven years. His wife, Valma, was also appointed to the board in 1973. Valma Burrows’ brother-in-law was Dr Sandy Robertson AM a paediatric surgeon at the Children’s Hospital.

Honours
Burrows was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (Civil) on 16 June 1979 in recognition of his services to children's health. The University of Sydney Medical School Foundation's Douglas Burrows Chair of Paediatrics and Child Health was established in 1983 in his honour.
Passage 9:
John Fulton Folinsbee
John Fulton "Jack" Folinsbee (March 14, 1892 – May 10, 1972) was an American landscape, marine and portrait painter, and a member of the art colony at New Hope, Pennsylvania. He is best known today for his impressionist scenes of New Hope and Lambertville, New Jersey, particularly the factories, quarries, and canals along the Delaware River.

Biography
He was born in Buffalo, New York, the middle son of Harrison and Louise Mauger Folinsbee.: 24  Beginning at age nine, he attended children's classes at the Art Students' League of Buffalo, but received his first formal training with the landscape painter Jonas Lie in 1907.: 27  Folinsbee contracted polio at age 14, which rendered his legs useless, weakened his right arm, and left him permanently reliant on a wheelchair. He attended The Gunnery, a boarding school in Washington, Connecticut, from 1907 to 1911, where he studied with Elizabeth Kempton and Herbert Faulkner.: 28  He later studied with Birge Harrison and John Carlson at the Woodstock art colony (Summers, 1912–1914),: 29–30  and with Frank Vincent DuMond at the Art Students League of New York.: 31 At Woodstock, he met Harry (Tony) Leith-Ross, who became a lifelong friend and later followed him to New Hope. In 1914, Folinsbee married Ruth Baldwin (August 8, 1890 – February 13, 1991) – daughter of William H. Baldwin, Jr. and Ruth Standish Baldwin – whom he had met in Washington, Connecticut. The couple moved to New Hope in 1916, and had two daughters, Elizabeth (1917–2016, married Elmer W. Wiggins, 1940); and Joan (1919–2016, married Peter G. Cook, 1938).Early in his career, Folinsbee painted in a tonalist style, with an interest in light and atmosphere that grew directly from his time with Harrison and Carlson in Woodstock. By the late nineteen-teens, he had moved away from tonalism into a more structured, impressionist style. In the mid-1920s, Folinsbee began studying the work of Cézanne, which led to a trip to France in the summer of 1926. The paintings that resulted from this trip, and those that followed later in the decade, reflect a deep understanding of Cézanne's compositional strategies and a desire to reveal the underlying structure of forms. Folinsbee's exploration of structure led eventually to an analytical, highly individual expressionist style in which he painted for the remainder of his career. His palette darkened, his brushstrokes loosened further, and his sense of light and atmosphere became more dramatic. These later works are concerned with conveying a sense of mood and an intense emotional response to the world around him.
His basic aim was the communication of feeling; the subject had to be felt to be worth painting. The communication of that feeling was what a painting was all about; without that excitement in the subject, a painting was merely a dead reproduction of nature or of natural phenomena.: 11  — Peter G. Cook

New Hope
Folinsbee painted en plein air, directly from nature. He always had a sketchbook or a box of 8 x 10 inch canvasboards with him, ready to capture any scene that caught his eye.: 45  He and Leith-Ross were famous for spending afternoons sketching on the bridge at New Hope (and for tossing anything that displeased them into the Delaware River).: 45, n.24  From his wheelchair, Folinsbee could manage "paintings as large as 24 X 30.": 86  Larger works were painted in his studio from drawings and oil sketches. He frequently repeated the same scene on different sized canvases, or as an etching or lithograph.: 72  To paint a large work, he would lean a canvas against the studio wall and sit on the floor before it, his withered legs tucked under him.: 18  Relying on notes made on the spot about color and light, he would edit the scene as he painted, emphasizing or eliminating elements to enhance the overall mood.: 67  "The larger studio paintings were never simply blown-up versions of a successful small painting: rather they were developments of a theme along expressive lines, with memory and emotional reaction playing an important role.": 86 The Folinsbees purchased an acre of riverfront land about a quarter-mile upstream from the bridge, across the street from the house they were renting. In 1924, they hired architect (and landscape painter) Morgan Colt to design them an Arts & Crafts-style house and studio. Folinsbee painted dozens of views of the river from the property: 146  – most notably Winter Nocturne (1926), River Ice (c.1936), and his last major work, Zero Morning (1970) – and some views of the house itself. They lived at 160 North Main Street until their deaths.In 1929, the Folinsbees were among the founders of Phillips' Mill, an arts center housed in a former grist mill, and Ruth Folinsbee served as the first vice-president of its community association.: 79  He participated in art exhibitions there from 1929 into the 1960s. His Shag Ledge (c.1959) was awarded the 1963 First Patron's Prize by Phillips' Mill. The Folinsbees were also founding members of the Bucks County Playhouse.: 16 The Great Depression dealt a heavy blow to artists, with little market for luxury goods such as landscape paintings. Folinsbee resorted to bartering his works for services, including dentistry for his daughters.: 95  Portraits – for which he typically charged $400 to $500 for a head-and-bust and $1,000 for a three-quarter-length: 103, n.3  – became a larger part of his output.: 95  Edward Beatty Rowan, assistant chief of the Public Buildings Administration's Section of Painting and Sculpture, offered him a commission for a post office mural in Freeland, Pennsylvania.: 97  Completed in 1938, Folinsbee's mural is both pastoral and industrial: depicting the town's church spires peeking out from among the autumnal-colored hills, but also featuring the town's massive coal breaker and its long culm dump.: 98 Folinsbee was also a teacher. One of his better-known students, Peter G. Cook (who married his daughter Joan in 1938), became a colleague and friend. The pair collaborated on murals for two other federal projects: the Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse in Paducah, Kentucky (1939),: 98–100  and the post office in Burgettstown, Pennsylvania (1942).: 100–02

Maine
In the mid-1930s, Folinsbee and his family began spending their summers in Maine.: 106  He bought a farmhouse at Murphy's Corner, between Bath and Wiscasset, in 1949.: 109  Despite his intense wariness of the ocean,: 27  he embarked on a new aspect of his career—as a marine painter. His Off Seguin (Ellingwood Rock) was awarded the 1952 Palmer Marine Prize by the National Academy of Design.: 109  With the prize money, Folinsbee bought a 25-foot motorized Hampton dory (flat-bottomed open boat) that he named "Sketch" and equipped as a floating studio.: 25 
One day I suddenly realized that the waves of a heavy sea duplicate what El Greco did in painting the heavy folds of his drapery. The quick turn of the waves is like that of his folds, in that the darkest dark is against the lightest light. The greatest contrast comes at the sharpest point where the wave turns up—where there is a dark, there is a light—it is that way in the folds of El Greco's garments. I've always been fascinated with the way he twists those big folds—exaggeration perhaps, but true in expressing the play of light on form. — John Folinsbee
Folinsbee was diagnosed with cancer in the late 1960s, which further weakened his right arm.: 146  He stopped painting in 1971, and died a year later in New Hope.: 146

Critical reception and honors
Folinsbee's work has been described as the "rural counterpart" to the Ashcan School.: 22  Critic Robert E. Baum (son of artist Walter Emerson Baum) saw in him "the power, frankness, and story-telling quality of a George Bellows or a Winslow Homer. This man sees the rhythm of beauty coupled with a color harmony in many workaday nooks that may seem ugly to the average passerby." In Modern American Painting (1940), Peyton Boswell, Jr. placed him among the "Lyricists"—"the moody ones, dreamers and mystics," who "work sometimes in pattern, but more often in terms of light, shadow and chiaroscuro. They use color and form for emotional rather than aesthetic reasons."Folinsbee was elected an associate member of the National Academy of Design in 1919, and a full academician in 1928. He was elected a member of the Salmagundi Club in 1913,: 280  a life member of the National Arts Club in 1922,: 99  and a member of the Century Association in 1937.: 283  He was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 1953.: 285 Folinsbee was represented by Ferargil Gallery in New York City for most of his career, and his paintings were exhibited across the country and in several international exhibitions. He won nearly every award given by the National Academy of Design, receiving some of them multiple times. He exhibited at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts most years from 1915 to 1952, and was awarded the 1931 Jessie Sesnan Medal (for Canal and River). He also won awards from the Connecticut Academy of Fine Arts, the Rhode Island School of Design, the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the Salmagundi Club, and other arts organizations, including a bronze medal at the 1926 Sesquicentennial Exposition in Philadelphia (for Outskirts of Trenton).

Legacy
Folinsbee's work is in the permanent collections of major museums, including the Smithsonian American Art Museum, the National Gallery of Art, the National Academy of Design, and the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts. A bronze bust of him by his friend Harry Rosin is in the collection of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.Folinsbee's students included artists Peter G. Cook and Evelyn Allen Faherty. Cook became his son-in-law, and wrote a personal memoir, John Folinsbee (1994).
Kirsten M. Jensen, senior curator at the James A. Michener Art Museum in Doylestown, Pennsylvania, is the author of Folinsbee Considered (2014), a scholarly biography and catalogue raisonné. The Michener Museum maintains an online version of the catalogue raisonné, which is updated as additional Folinsbee works are identified.

Selected works
Landscapes
Poughkeepsie Bridge (1914), private collection. Awarded the 1914 Isidore Prize by the Art Students League of New York.
Gloucester Hillside (1916), Princeton University Art Museum, Princeton, New Jersey.
February (Village in Winter) (1916), Hood Museum of Art, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire.
Canal in Winter (c.1916-17), National Arts Club, New York City. Awarded the 1917 Second Hallgarten Prize by the National Academy of Design.
Along the Canal (c.1916-21), The Phillips Collection, Washington, D.C.
Oncoming Clouds (c.1918), North Carolina Museum of Art, Raleigh, North Carolina.
Grey Thaw (1920), National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C. (ex coll. Corcoran Gallery of Art).
By the Upper Lock (1922), Smithsonian American Art Museum, Washington, D.C. Awarded the 1923 First Hallgarten Prize by the National Academy of Design.
Canal at Trenton (1923), National Academy of Design Museum, New York City.: 197 
Mending the Canal Bank (1923), private collection.
Grey Coryell (1923), Dallas Museum of Art, Dallas, Texas.
Mill by the River, Fall (c.1923-25), James A. Michener Art Museum, Doylestown, Pennsylvania.
Outskirts of Trenton (1924), Huntington Museum of Art, Huntington, West Virginia. Awarded a bronze medal at the 1926 Sesquicentennial Exposition.
Lehigh Canal (c.1924-25), Palmer Museum of Art, Pennsylvania State University, State College, Pennsylvania.
Canal at Goat Hill (1925), Rhode Island School of Design Museum, Providence, Rhode Island. Awarded the 1925 Gedney Bunce Prize by the Connecticut Academy of Fine Arts.
Winter Nocturne (1926), Reading Public Museum, Reading, Pennsylvania.
Shad Boat (1927), Huntington Museum of Art, Huntington, West Virginia.
Slate Quarry, Bangor (1929), Woodmere Art Museum, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Canal Bridge, New Hope (c.1929-32), James A. Michener Art Museum, Doylestown, Pennsylvania.
Canal and River (1930), private collection. Awarded the 1931 Jessie Sesnan Medal by the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.: 83 
Storm Light (1936), Reading Public Museum, Reading, Pennsylvania.
Bowman's Hill (1936), James A. Michener Art Museum, Doylestown, Pennsylvania.
River Ice (c.1936), James A. Michener Art Museum, Doylestown, Pennsylvania.
Freeland (Study for Freeland, Pennsylvania Post Office Mural) (1938), Smithsonian American Art Museum, Washington, D.C.
Evening at Swan's Island (1938), Ogunquit Museum of American Art, Ogunquit Maine.
Hunterdon County (1940), New Jersey State Museum, Trenton, New Jersey. Awarded the 1941 Altman Prize by the National Academy of Design.: 99 
Skaters, Dark Hollow (1945), Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Hazelton Brickyard (1950), Allentown Art Museum, Allentown, Pennsylvania.
Zero Morning (1970), private collection. Folinsbee's last major work.: 146–47

Seascapes
Shag Rock (c.1950), Woodmere Art Museum, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Off Seguin (Ellingwood Rock) (1952), Portland Museum of Art, Portland, Maine. Awarded the 1952 Palmer Marine Prize by the National Academy of Design.: 109 
Lopaus Point (1957), Farnsworth Art Museum, Rockland, Maine.
Ellingwood Rock (1960), James A. Michener Art Museum, Doylestown, Pennsylvania.

Murals
Freeland (1938), Post Office, Freeland, Pennsylvania
View of Burgettstown (1942), Post Office, Burgettstown, Pennsylvania, with Peter G. Cook
Federal Building and U.S. Courthouse, Paducah, Kentucky
Early Town (Lewis and Clark in Paducah) (1942), with Peter G. Cook
The River (Paducah, Kentucky) (1942), with Peter G. Cook

Portraits
Self-Portrait (1919), National Academy of Design Museum, New York City.: 197 
Harry Leith-Ross (1928), National Academy of Design Museum, New York City.: 198 
Ruth Standish Baldwin (1929), Smith College, Northampton, Massachusetts. Folinsbee's mother-in-law.
James Kellum Smith (1942), National Academy of Design Museum, New York City.: 198 
Self-Portrait at Fifty (1942), private collection.
William Thon (c.1950-51), National Academy of Design Museum, New York City.: 199 
A. Dayton Oliphant (1958), New Jersey State Capitol, Trenton. Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court.
Peter Geoffrey Cook (1964), National Academy of Design Museum, New York City.: 198  Folinsbee's son-in-law.

Notes
Passage 10:
Frederick John Fulton
Frederick John Fulton, KC (December 8, 1862 – July 25, 1936) was a  British-born and educated Canadian lawyer and politician.  He practiced law in Kamloops, British Columbia.  He was a member of the British Columbia Legislative Assembly from 1900 to 1909 serving a series of cabinet roles as President of the Executive Council, Minister of Education, Provincial Secretary, Attorney General and Chief Commissioner of Lands and Works.  As Attorney General, he prosecuted and convicted the notorious Bill Miner.
He was elected to the House of Commons of Canada under the banner of Prime Minister Borden's Unionist party in the 1917 general election and served as a Member of Parliament until 1920.
In 1906, he married Winnifred M. Davie, daughter of Hon. A.E.B. Davie. Frederick and Winifred had four sons. Their youngest son Davie Fulton, was also a Kamloops lawyer, provincial and federal politician and judge.

External links

Frederick John Fulton – Parliament of Canada biography