Passage 1:
In a Coma
In a Coma: 1995-2005 is the title of the Matthew Good compilation album, featuring both his solo work and work from the Matthew Good Band.

Details
The album is often titled In a Coma: 1995-2005, and notably lacks either "best of" or "greatest hits" in the official title. It was released on September 20, 2005. However, even before its release, the album reached #1 on Amazon.ca via pre-orders, and 200 signed copies sold out from Matthew Good's official site in under four hours.
The album is available in two forms: the regular version and the deluxe. The regular only includes disc one, the deluxe features two audio discs and one DVD. The first disc contains nearly all of the singles released by the Matthew Good Band and Matt solo, lacking only Good's most recent singles ("Near Fantastica", "It's Been a While Since I Was Your Man", "In Love with a Bad Idea") and the singles from the album The Audio of Being ("Carmelina", "Anti-Pop"). The first disc also contains two new songs ("Oh Be Joyful", "Big City Life"), as well as a b-side ("Pony Boy") recorded during the sessions for The Audio of Being.
For the second disc, Good entered the studio solo with an acoustic guitar and recorded new versions of several songs from his extensive catalog. For added effect, Good miked the street outside the studio as he performed, adding an ambiance to the session that Good particularly enjoyed. Given the scarcity of the two MGB EPs Lo-Fi B-Sides and Loser Anthems, Good decided to add the two discs to the latter half of the second disc as a nod to fans.
The DVD in the deluxe package includes every promotional video filmed during Good's career, solo and with the Matthew Good Band. As a bonus, Good recorded a commentary track with Bill Morrison, who directed the majority of the videos. The DVD also includes an animated video for "While We Were Hunting Rabbits", which was created by students at Sheridan College. After Good realized that his favourite songs had not been included in the package, a section featuring those songs accompanied by a slideshow of images similar to the cover artwork was added to the disc.
"Oh Be Joyful", the first single from In a Coma, was released on July 25, 2005. The song's release was accompanied by a video that many fans found confusing, as it contained little more than a burning fireplace. Matthew Good was quick to defend his video on his blog, saying that it was "one of the greatest temporary musical screen savers of all time" and that it was only intended to appear on his site, not to play on Much Music.

Track listing
Regular release
"Oh Be Joyful"  – 3:52 (previously unreleased)
"Big City Life"  – 4:15 (previously unreleased)
"Alert Status Red"  – 4:19 (from White Light Rock & Roll Review)
"Weapon"  – 6:06 (from Avalanche)
"In a World Called Catastrophe"  – 5:59 (from Avalanche)
"Hello Time Bomb"  – 3:56 (from Beautiful Midnight)
"Load Me Up"  – 3:42 (from Beautiful Midnight)
"Strange Days"  – 4:24 (from Beautiful Midnight)
"The Future Is X-Rated"  – 3:46 (from Beautiful Midnight)
"Everything Is Automatic"  – 4:18 (from Underdogs)
"Rico"  – 3:27 (from Underdogs)
"Apparitions"  – 5:14 (from Underdogs)
"Indestructible"  – 3:26 (from Underdogs)
"Symbolistic White Walls"  – 4:30 (from Last of the Ghetto Astronauts)
"Haven't Slept In Years (Alternate)"  – 3:35 (from Raygun)
"Alabama Motel Room"  – 3:20 (from Last of the Ghetto Astronauts)
"Pony Boy"  – 4:03 (previously unreleased)
"All Together" - 4:37 (previously unreleased) iTunes Pre-Order Track / ca.7digital.com exclusive

Deluxe Edition
Part One: Rooms (acoustic reworkings)

"Truffle Pigs"  – 4:04
"Tripoli"  – 4:51
"Generation X-Wing"  – 3:55
"Apparitions"  – 4:05
"North American for Life"  – 3:13
"Advertising on Police Cars"  – 4:08
"Hello Time Bomb"  – 4:10
"Strange Days"  – 4:55
"Prime Time Deliverance"  – 4:22Part Two: Loser Anthems

 "Flashdance II"  – 4:44
"The Man from Harold Wood"  – 2:18
"My Life as a Circus Clown"  – 2:46
"Intermezzo: M. Good v. M. Trolley"  – 0:35
"Flight Recorder from Viking 7"  – 5:34
"Life Beyond the Minimum Safe Distance"  – 3:53
"The Fine Art of Falling Apart"  – 3:39Part Three: Lo-Fi B-Sides

 "Born to Kill"  – 5:14
"Enjoy the Silence"  – 3:11
"Fated"  – 3:31

Bonus DVD
Part One: Music Videos

Alabama Motel Room
Symbolistic White Walls
Everything Is Automatic
Indestructible
Apparitions
Rico
Hello Time Bomb
Load Me Up
Strange Days
The Future Is X-Rated
Carmelina
Anti-Pop
Weapon
In a World Called Catastrophe
Alert Status Red
It's Been a While Since I Was Your Man
While We Were Hunting Rabbits (new video)Part Two: The Making of "Rooms"

The Making of "Rooms" FeaturePart Three: Matthew's picks with special slide show

Avalanche
A Long Way Down
Pledge of Allegiance
Blue Skies Over Bad Lands
House of Smoke and MirrorsPart Four: Discography

Personnel
Matthew Good Band performs from Last of the Ghetto Astronauts to Loser Anthems. Others are performed by Matthew Good.

Matthew Good Band
Matthew Good - vocals, guitar, cover concept (Underdogs), piano, percussion, additional producer, strings, writing & arrangement, art director, producer
Ian Browne - drums
Geoff Lloyd - Bass guitar (Last of the Ghetto Astronauts, Raygun, Underdogs)
Rich Priske - Bass guitar
Dave Genn - Guitar, Keyboards

Last of the Ghetto Astronauts
Dave Genn - Organ, Rhodes (not part of MGB at this time)
John Shepp - Producer, mixer
Terry Brown - Mixer ("Alabama Motel Room", "Symbolistic White Walls")
George Leger - Mastering
Recorded at Utopia Parkway Studios, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
Manufacturer: Darktown Records
Distributor: A&M Records, a division of PolyGram Inc.
Words and music by Matthew GoodExcept "Alabama Motel Room", music by Good/Lloyd/Browne

Raygun
Dale Penner - Producer, engineer
Clif Norrell - Mixer
Stephen Marcussen - Mastering
Recorded at Greenhouse Studios, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada
Words and music by Matthew Good

Underdogs
Todd Kerns performs backing vocals on "Everything Is Automatic" and "Rico" (not part of MGB)

Warne Livesey - Producer, engineer, mixer
Dean Maher - Assistant
Zach Blackstone - Engineer
Stephen Marcussen - Mastering
Recorded at Greenhouse Studios, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada
Words by Matthew Good
Music by Matthew Good/Dave GennExcept "Rico", music by Good/Browne/Lloyd/Genn

Lo-Fi B-Sides (Disc Two, Part Three)
Warne Livesey - Producer, engineer, mixer

Beautiful Midnight
Todd Kerns (not part of MGB) performs backing vocals on "Hello Time Bomb"

Natasha Duprey - Phone Sex on "The Future is X-Rated"
Warne Livesey - Producer, Engineer, mixer
Zach Blackstone - Engineer
Steve Kaplan (BJG Studios, London) - Mixer
Tim Young - Mastering
Recorded at House of Brucifer, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
Words by Matthew Good
Music by Matthew Good/Dave GennExcept "Load Me Up", music by Good/Genn/Browne/Priske

Loser Anthems (Disc Two, Part Two)
Holly McNarland performs backing vocals on "Flight Recorder from Viking 7" (not part of MGB)

Avalanche
Pat Steward - Drums, Percussion
Richard Priske - Bass guitar, Additional Keyboards, Additional producer
Christian Thor Valdson - Electric Guitar
Vancouver Symphony Orchestra - Strings
Musica Intima - Choral Performances
Warne Livesey - Producer, engineer, mixer, strings Writing & Arrangement
Zach Blackstone - Engineer
Adam Ayan (Gateway Mastering) - Mastering
Recorded at Mushroom Studios, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
All songs by Matthew Good

White Light Rock & Roll Review
Pat Steward - Drums
Rich Priske - Bass guitar
Christian Thor Valdson - Electric Guitar
Warne Livesey - Producer, engineer, mixer
Scott Ternan - Assistant engineer
Joel Livesey - Assistant engineer
Zach Blackstone - Assistant engineer
Kirk McNally - Assistant engineer
Mastered by Tim Young at Metropolis, London, UK
Tim Young (Metropolis, London, England) - Mastering
Recorded at Mushroom Studios and Warehouse Studios, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
All songs by Matthew Good

New Songs ("Oh Be Joyful", "Big City Life")
Ryan Dahle - Lead guitar, engineer
Pat Steward - Drums
Megan Bradfield - Bass guitar
Zach Blackstone - Engineer
Randy Staub - Mixer
George Marino - Mastering
Recorded at Warehouse Studios, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
All songs by Matthew Good

B-Sides ("Pony Boy") (unreleased from "The Audio of Being" sessions)
Matthew Good - Electric Guitar, vocals
Dave Genn - Electric Guitar, Keyboards
Rich Priske - Bass guitar
Ian Browne - Drums
Holly McNarland - Backing vocals
Warne Livesey - Producer, engineer, mixer
Recorded at Armoury Studios and Warehouse Studios, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
Words & Music by Matthew Good

Rooms
Recorded at Warehouse Studios, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
All songs by Matthew Good

Music videos
Videos features music, words, and band members from the album they were released on, information on those can be found on each album's page.All videos directed by Bill MorrisonExcept "Strange Days" (Morrison/Good), "Anti-Pop" (Chris Nelson), "Weapon" (officially Ante Kovac/Good, but Good fired Kovac halfway through the video), "In a World Called Catastrophe" (Kyle Davison), and "While We Were Hunting Rabbits (animation students of Sheridan College)Note: Because most of this album is a compilation, the personnel varies from song to song, which is why the albums were listed during Disc One. The information here is condensed; full information can be retrieved on the album's original page.
Passage 2:
Matthew Good discography
This is a comprehensive discography for the solo works of Matthew Good, a Canadian singer-songwriter.

Demos
Albums
Studio albums
Compilations and live albums
Note: Contains material from the Matthew Good Band as well as Matthew Good's solo releases.

Extended plays
Singles
Music videos
See also
Matthew Good Band discography
Passage 3:
Matthew Good Band
Matthew Good Band was a Canadian alternative rock band formed in Coquitlam, British Columbia in 1995. The band consisted of singer-songwriter/guitarist Matthew Good, guitarist/keyboardist Dave Genn, drummer Ian Browne and bassist Geoff Lloyd. Lloyd was replaced by Rich Priske in 1998. They became one of the most successful rock bands in Canada during the late 1990s and early 2000s, being nominated for 14 Juno Awards and winning the awards for "Best Group" and "Best Rock Album" (Beautiful Midnight) in 2000. The band broke up after the release of their 2001 album, The Audio of Being.

History
1995–1996: Formation, Last of the Ghetto Astronauts
After beginning his music career as a folk musician, Matthew Good formed a three-piece rock band in 1995 composed of himself, drummer Charlie Quintana (later replaced by Ian Browne) and bassist Geoff Lloyd. Dave Genn originally only recorded with the band as a paid session musician. The four recorded the band's debut album, Last of the Ghetto Astronauts. The band released the album independently in 1995, after which Genn officially joined the band. The band was not originally called "Matthew Good Band". In fact, the first 5000 copies of Last of the Ghetto Astronauts were just titled "MGB". After the album was released, "Alabama Motel Room" began to receive significant radio airplay, and people began requesting the song on radio and the album at retail stores calling the band, "Matthew Good Band". At the time, the band had been having conversations about their name, and decided that they would be called "Matthew Good Band". Although initially popular only in the Vancouver area, they received more exposure across Canada in 1996, with the singles "Alabama Motel Room" and "Symbolistic White Walls" becoming significant hits on radio and their music videos being played on MuchMusic. In December 1996, Matthew Good Band signed a two-album deal with Private Music.

1997–1999: Underdogs
In mid-January 1997, on the first day of pre-production for their next album, the group was notified that BMG Entertainment North America was merging Private Music into Windham Hill/High Street Records, putting a halt to the production of the album. In mid-March, after negotiations, Windham Hill/High Street released the group from its contract. Good was paid what he was owed for the two albums, and the group then decided to record the new album without label support, using the money received from the divorce of their contract with Windham Hill/High Street to fund it. The group then agreed to release the upcoming album under a distribution agreement with PolyGram Group Canada. After releasing the EP Raygun in May 1997, the band later that year released their second full-length album, Underdogs. The album was produced by Warne Livesey, who would go on to produce every full-length MGB album and most of Good's subsequent solo albums. The album spawned the singles "Everything Is Automatic", "Indestructible", "Apparitions" and "Rico", all of which were hits in Canada.
The band toured across Canada with Edgefest during the summer of 1998. In November 1998, Geoff Lloyd left the band. Lloyd was replaced by Rich Priske shortly after. On January 21, 1999, Underdogs was certified Platinum in Canada.

1999–2000: Beautiful Midnight
In July 1999, the band again toured across Canada as a part of Edgefest, this time on the main stage. In September 1999, the band released Beautiful Midnight. The album debuted at #1 on the Canadian Albums Chart and featured the hit singles "Hello Time Bomb", "Load Me Up" and "Strange Days". In January 2000, Good underwent vocal cord surgery after being diagnosed with sarcoidosis, prompting him to temporarily quit smoking. In March 2000, The band won two Juno awards for "Best Group" and "Best Rock Album". Good himself did not attend the ceremony, and guitarist Dave Genn has been quoted as saying that he only attends for the open bar. Beautiful Midnight became the band's best-selling album, being certified Double Platinum in Canada and selling over 300,000 copies by 2016. In 2000, the band's song "Running for Home" was featured in an episode of Higher Ground.

2000–2001: The Audio of Being
In the summer of 2000, Good stayed in a hotel for three weeks in Whistler to work on songs for the new album. Good later wrote that he spent much of the time "trying to keep down food supplement bars, trying to forget the growing tension within the band, the high expectations of needing to produce 'hit songs' (whatever they are these days), throwing up, and trying to find some semblance of direction in my personal life". The band entered the studio in late 2000 to record the material. The sessions saw a great deal of intra-band turmoil. In February 2001, the band began a brief tour of the United States to promote the American release of Beautiful Midnight. In June 2001, the band released the EP Loser Anthems, and followed it with what would be the band's final tour in the summer. In August 2001, Dave Genn quit the band, returning though four days later. The band released The Audio of Being on October 30, 2001.

Breakup
In November 2001, it was reported that Genn had left the band again and Ian Browne had also left the band. In February 2002, Universal Music Canada confirmed that the band had broken up. In March 2002, during his first interview after the breakup was confirmed, Good stated that the breakup was "a conscious effort on everybody's part". In a 2009 interview for The Ongoing History of New Music, Good stated that he decided the band was done after The Audio of Being was released, citing him no longer wanting to placate the needs of the other band members and no one wanting to tour the new record as reasons.

2002–present: Aftermath
Since the breakup of Matthew Good Band, Good has pursued a successful solo career, with Priske continuing as Good's bassist until 2005. Genn has been a member of the Canadian rock group 54-40 since 2003 and has written and produced songs for several artists. Geoff Lloyd died in January, 2010. Good briefly reunited with Browne in 2011, with Browne drumming for Good on his Lights of Endangered Species tour. Rich Priske died on July 11, 2020.

Members
Matthew Good – lead vocals, rhythm guitar (1995–2002)
Rich Priske – bass guitar (1998–2002)
Ian Browne – drums (1995–2001)
Dave Genn – lead guitar, keyboards (1995–2001)
Geoff Lloyd – bass guitar (1995-1998)

Discography
Last of the Ghetto Astronauts (1995)
Raygun (1997)
Underdogs (1997)
Lo-Fi B-Sides (1998)
Beautiful Midnight (1999)
Loser Anthems: B-Sides & Rarities (2001)
The Audio of Being (2001)

See also
Canadian rock
Music of Canada
Passage 4:
Switchfoot
Switchfoot is an American rock band from San Diego, California. The band's members are Jon Foreman (lead vocals, guitar), Tim Foreman (bass guitar, backing vocals), Chad Butler (drums, percussion), and Jerome Fontamillas (guitar, keyboards, backing vocals). After early successes in the Christian rock scene, Switchfoot first gained mainstream recognition with the inclusion of four of their songs in the 2002 movie A Walk to Remember. This recognition led to their major label debut, The Beautiful Letdown, which was released in 2003 and featured the hits "Meant to Live" and "Dare You to Move". The album sold over 2.6 million copies. They have since been noted for their energetic live shows, and their seventh studio album Hello Hurricane received a Grammy award in 2011 for Best Rock or Rap Gospel Album.
According to Jon Foreman, the name "Switchfoot" comes from a surfing term. "We all love to surf and have been surfing all our lives so to us, the name made sense. To switch your feet means to take a new stance facing the opposite direction. It's about change and movement, a different way of approaching life and music."

History
Formation and early years (1996–2002)
Switchfoot was founded in 1996 as Chin Up, consisting of Jon Foreman and his brother Tim, along with Chad Butler on drums. After playing a few shows including the Foreman brothers' dad's megachurch North Coast Calvary Chapel in Carlsbad, California, the band was contacted by music industry veteran Charlie Peacock and eventually signed to his indie label Re:think Records under the current moniker, Switchfoot. Re:think went on to distribute the first three Switchfoot albums, The Legend of Chin, New Way to Be Human, and Learning to Breathe. Because Re:think was bought by Christian giant Sparrow Records before Switchfoot's first release, however, the band's and Peacock's intentions of being marketed outside of the Contemporary Christian music scene and reaching a wider audience were put on hold. Consequently, the band was mostly marketed to Christian radio and retail outlets early in their careers, a time Jon Foreman has described as when "half of who we were was lost."Of Switchfoot's first three albums, Learning to Breathe was the most successful, receiving a Grammy nomination for Best Rock Gospel Album.
Later on in 2002, Switchfoot's music was featured prominently in the movie A Walk to Remember, starring singer and actress Mandy Moore, who sang Switchfoot's song "Only Hope" during a scene in the movie. In addition to Moore's cover of "Only Hope", Switchfoot's songs "You", "Learning to Breathe", and "I Dare You to Move" were showcased in the film, as well as their own original version of "Only Hope" towards the end of the film.

The Beautiful Letdown (2003–2005)
Following the exposure that came from A Walk to Remember, Switchfoot attracted attention from multiple record labels, and ultimately signed with Columbia Records/SonyBMG. Their major label debut, The Beautiful Letdown, under Columbia Records/Red Ink, represented the band's evolution from the predominantly lo-fi, indie rock sound of their early albums, toward a more layered, synth-influenced sound that helped launch the band to mainstream popularity. This shift sonically could be attributed to the fact that the album was the first to include keyboardist Jerome Fontamillas, formerly of industrial bands Mortal and Fold Zandura. Fontamillas had been touring with Switchfoot since 2000, following the release of Learning to Breathe.
The Beautiful Letdown has since been certified double platinum, selling more than 2.6 million copies, on the strength of constant touring and the huge mainstream radio hits "Meant to Live" and "Dare You to Move". A live DVD depicting one of the band's live concerts, Live in San Diego, went platinum as well, and a third single, "This Is Your Life" was released to radio. In addition, the song "Gone" received major airplay on Christian radio stations as well.
Following the runaway success of The Beautiful Letdown, a compilation titled The Early Years: 1997-2000 was released, which featured Switchfoot's first three indie albums released under Re:think records including the original artwork for all the albums. This collection has since been certified Gold, with total sales of over 500,000 copies.Switchfoot also received five 2005 Dove Award nominations, and won four, including Artist of the year.

Nothing Is Sound (2005–2006)
In 2005, prior to the release of Nothing Is Sound, Switchfoot announced that guitarist Drew Shirley (previously the guitarist for All Together Separate) had become the band's fifth member after touring with the band since 2003. Nothing Is Sound was released on September 13, 2005, and with Shirley's inclusion saw Switchfoot's sound become even more densely layered and guitar-heavy, resulting in an album that was edgier and darker than any of their previous work. "Stars" was released as the first radio single to promote the album, and was a solid hit on mainstream and alternative rock radio stations. It was also used in ads for HBO. "We Are One Tonight" was released as the second single in early 2006, and was also featured in ads for the 2006 Winter Olympics.

The album debuted at No. 3 on the Billboard 200 albums chart, an all-time high for the band, while bassist Tim Foreman attracted headlines by speaking out against the copy-protection used by the label and providing fans a detailed workaround on the band's message board, which was quickly deleted by Sony. This copy-protection is known as Extended Copy Protection, which has been identified by leading anti-virus companies as a trojan horse and a rootkit.
During the Spring 2006 leg of the Nothing Is Sound Tour, the band introduced "a video diary of life on the road" in the form of free video podcasts available via iTunes and streaming online on YouTube. In addition to featuring snippets of upcoming songs and live performances, the videos gave fans an inside look at the more casual and humorous aspects of the band members' touring lives, as well as featuring footage of the band working on their follow-up to Nothing Is Sound.

Oh! Gravity. (2006–2007)
Switchfoot's next album, Oh! Gravity., was released on December 26, 2006, to considerable critical acclaim. It entered the Billboard chart at No. 18 and peaked at No. 1 on iTunes' Top Albums chart.

Before the release of the album, Switchfoot e-mailed a newsletter on June 2 which contained a free download of the song "Daylight to Break", a statement from Foreman implying that the band wanted to have a new album out by the end of the year, as well as a thanks to their fans for helping keep the band together for ten years. The band tried to involve their fans in the creation of the album, setting up a webcam in their recording studio and running a contest for a chance to play the cowbell in the studio with the band.To promote the album, the band first released the song, "Dirty Second Hands", as a "preview" single via iTunes on September 26. The title track "Oh! Gravity" was also released to iTunes on October 21 and was sent to radio on October 31 as the lead single for the album, seeing limited success at alternative and modern rock radio. The album's second single, "Awakening", was released in early 2007. Although it saw virtually no play on mainstream radio, the accompanying band-funded music video song received over one million hits on YouTube in less than three months. Along with preorders of Oh! Gravity came a 3-song EP called Oh! Switchfoot. The short CD included three songs: "The Sound in My Mouth", "C'mon C'mon", and "Oh! Gravity (Acoustic)".

Major-label independence, The Best Yet (2007–2008)
Later, on August 10, 2007, Jon Foreman revealed that the band had severed ties with Columbia Records in order to release music as an Indie band. "Neither party has any hard feelings," he said of the split a few months later. "I think for us, the reason why we signed with Columbia was because of the people that were there. So it's very understandable when all those people are gone, you don't hold any real bad feelings or good feelings towards a company name. I think that's part of the problem with the corporate entity as a whole is that there's no true responsibility." Later in October, the band announced that they had created a new record label called lowercase people records, in order to better make a direct connection with their fans.
Subsequently, Foreman began working on his own set of solo EPs (one named after each season of the year); the first of these was released on November 27, 2007, the last on June 10, 2008. "Your Love Is Strong" is the most well known from the string of releases. Each of Jon's EP's contained six songs. At the end of this, he released a sort of "best of" album called Limbs and Branches. Foreman wrote two additional songs for this called "Over the River" and "Broken from the Start". Once all four EP's were released, they were released again on vinyl in limited quantity. Foreman also began a side project with Sean Watkins of Nickel Creek originally called "The Real SeanJon" but later renamed "Fiction Family".
With their new status as an independent band, Switchfoot embarked on their 2007 fall tour, playing shows with Relient K and Ruth. The tour, dubbed the "Appetite for Construction Tour", was designed to benefit Habitat For Humanity, with the bands donating one dollar per ticket sold to the cause. In addition, Foreman wrote the song "Rebuild" with Matt Thiessen from Relient K, and released it as a way to raise additional money for Habitat. By the end of the tour, the bands had raised over $100,000 for Habitat for Humanity. With no new album to promote, the band continued touring for philanthropic causes, booking a short national tour in March through May (titled the Up In Arms Tour), partnering with and benefitting the organization To Write Love on Her Arms.In March 2008, the band wrote and recorded a new song called "This Is Home" for the film The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian. The song was included on the film's official soundtrack and an accompanying music video was also filmed, with footage from the film.Later that year, Columbia Records/Sony Music released a Switchfoot greatest hits compilation album titled The Best Yet, a sort of "final farewell from Sony".

Hello Hurricane and Eastern Hymns for Western Shores (2008–2010)
Prior to the label split, Foreman had announced in a March 17, 2007 MySpace blog that Switchfoot had begun pre-production for a new album, saying that "the new SF record is underway." Later, on October 12, 2007, Foreman also announced that the band had begun construction of their own studio in their hometown of San Diego. The studio, named Spot X Studio, was completed in the spring of 2008, and the band began recording their follow-up to 2006's Oh! Gravity.In April, the band announced that instead of one studio album, they had actually been at work on 4 albums-worth of material, and had decided at the time to release them one after another, starting with the first one on November 10, 2009, titled Hello Hurricane.Upon completion of Hello Hurricane, the band began searching for "the right partners" to distribute the songs globally. On August 7, 2009, the band announced that lowercase people records was licensing the album to Atlantic Records, ensuring "these tunes are heard around the world." To help promote this new release, the band took a hands-on approach with their lead single, "Mess of Me", by hiding copies of the single all across the world and encouraging fans to share it around by finding the discs and making copies of their own to hide. Through this, the single spread all across the world in grassroots fashion in advance of a traditional radio release, which saw the track hitting the Top 15 of Modern Rock radio. This was followed by the release of "The Sound (John M. Perkins' Blues)", which went on to become the band's first Top 10 Modern Rock hit since "Dare You to Move".On December 1, 2010, it was announced that Hello Hurricane had been nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Rock or Rap Gospel Album. It won the Grammy on February 13, 2011.
Late in 2010, Switchfoot announced, via newsletter, that they would be releasing an EP of songs that they wrote and recorded between Nothing Is Sound and Oh! Gravity. It was called Eastern Hymns for Western Shores. For a time the location of the masters of these tracks were unknown. Once found, Switchfoot announced that the EP would be available as part of their holiday fan pack which also included a Switchfoot calendar, poster, sweatshirt jacket, and limited edition post cards, one for each of the songs on the EP. In their newsletter the band described these songs as showing their "darker" side. The EP included five never before heard songs along with a different cut of the Oh! Gravity song "Dirty Second Hands".

Vice Verses (2011–2012)
Switchfoot's eighth studio album, Vice Verses, was released on September 27, 2011, and debuted at No. 8 on the Billboard 200. According to Butler, the core of the record rests thematically in the idea of the polarity of life. A release date of September 27, 2011, was announced on AllAccess, with "Dark Horses" hitting modern rock radio on July 20.In an interview with CBN.com, Bassist Tim Foreman calls Vice Verses a cousin to Hello Hurricane, not a sequel to their last album, but related in some ways. Tim, speaking of his brother (Switchfoot's lead singer, Jon), said, "It features some of his best lyrical work," and that Tim is happy with the musical component of the project as well. "From the very beginning, we set goals, one of them being to make a very rhythmic record, a very soulful record, and a very hard-hitting record that really pushes the boundaries, the highs and the lows," he told CBN.com.Switchfoot performed a song for the Hawaii Five-0 soundtrack, released October 4, 2011, titled "Out of Control".
On Record Store Day 2012, Switchfoot released their latest EP record, Vice Re-Verses. The digital download of the EP was later released on May 1.

Fading West album and film (2013–2015)
As of May 2013, Switchfoot was on tour and filming a movie called Fading West. The band's guitarist Drew Shirley has said that it was "a surf documentary mixed with behind the scenes footage of the band" and that "the soundtrack will be released as a CD and it will be [their] next album". On September 17, 2013 Switchfoot released Fading West EP containing three songs from the full-length album. Two songs on the EP, "Who We Are" and "Love Alone Is Worth the Fight", were released to different radio formats as the lead singles promoting the upcoming album. The Fading West film premiered during the Fading West Tour that started in September 2013, and was released digitally on December 10, 2013. Switchfoot's ninth studio album, also titled Fading West, was released on January 14, 2014 through lowercase people and Atlantic Records.In February 2014, in a YouTube Interview with Relevant magazine, Jon Foreman hinted that a new album was coming out in late 2014 or early 2015 that would mostly consist of the songs that were cut from the Fading West film. The album, an EP titled The Edge of the Earth, was released on September 9, 2014. Foreman also announced that he would be releasing between 30-50 new songs for his solo albums most likely during 2015.
Switchfoot toured in the UK, Ireland, Germany, Switzerland, Austria and the Netherlands in May and June 2015.
In July and August 2015, Switchfoot toured with Needtobreathe, Drew Holcomb and the Neighbors and Colony House during the second leg of the 2015 "Tour De Compadres" tour.

Where the Light Shines Through and hiatus (2015–2017)
In August 2015, it was reported that Switchfoot would be releasing their tenth studio album in 2016.
On April 29, 2016, Concord Music Group announced that the band had signed a worldwide recording and co-publishing deal with Vanguard Records imprint and Concord's sister publishing unit, The Bicycle Music Company.
On May 12, 2016, Switchfoot announced that the album, titled Where the Light Shines Through, would be released on July 8, 2016. It was produced by Switchfoot and John Fields, with whom the band has worked on The Beautiful Letdown, Nothing Is Sound and Oh! Gravity.
The band supported the album with the Looking for America Tour, featuring Relient K and traveled to over 70 cities from September 17, 2016 through February 2017.
On December 6, 2016, Switchfoot revealed through an email newsletter and on their website that the premiere of their new film, Live from Hollywood Palladium, would coincide with their 2017 Summer Getaway event.
In July 2017 the band took to the road touring with Lifehouse on the "Looking for Summer" tour. Where the band delivered 30+ shows across the U.S. and Canada. It was the first time that both Lifehouse & Switchfoot had toured together, where rock fans across North America got to hear both dynamic Rock bands of the same era. A new single by Lifehouse and Switchfoot had been released to help those affected by Hurricane Harvey while on tour. The song, “Shine Like Gold”.
On December 15, 2017, Switchfoot announced via their website and mailing list that, after returning home from their fall tour, they will be taking a hiatus "for the foreseeable future". The band said in their announcement, "For the first time in twenty years, we are taking an extended break."

Native Tongue and Covers (2018–2021)
On March 30, 2018, the band posted a clip on YouTube stating that they had come out of their hiatus and were working on something called "Project 11". They also previewed a heavy metal version of "Meant to Live", claiming this to be their new sound. Two days later on April 1, this was revealed to be an April Fool's Joke.On August 9, 2018, the band's song "You Found Me" was released as the single promoting the drama film Unbroken: Path to Redemption. The soundtrack album for the film was released on September 14, 2018.On October 19, 2018, Switchfoot announced the release of their eleventh album Native Tongue on January 18, 2019 through Fantasy Records. In support of the album, the band embarked on a 2019 concert tour of the United States, supported by Colony House and Tyson Motsenbocker. The first single "Native Tongue" and its music video were released in conjunction with the album announcement.In Spring 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, Switchfoot started working on an EP titled Covers, containing the band's take on songs by Frank Ocean, Vampire Weekend, The Chainsmokers, The Verve, Harry Styles and Jon Bellion. It was released on June 19, 2020 via Fantasy Records. They also played a monthly livestream concert called the "Fantastic Not Traveling Music Show" during which they played a variety of song requests spanning their career.

Interrobang (2021–present)
On May 7, 2021, Switchfoot released "I Need You (To Be Wrong)" as the first single from their twelfth studio album 
Interrobang. The album was released on August 20, 2021. A "deluxe" edition of the album was released on July 8, 2022, the six year anniversary of their 2016 album "Where The Light Shines Through". Switchfoot returned to live touring opening for Needtobreathe on the "Into the Mystery Tour". They also collaborated with Needtobreathe on an Amazon original Christmas song titled "Hometown Christmas".On February 21, 2022, the band announced that Drew Shirley and the band were parting ways.In September 2022 the band announced their first Christmas album This Is Our Christmas Album will be released in November. The album was released on November 4, 2022.
In May 2023, to celebrate the 20th anniversary of their album The Beautiful Letdown, the band released The Beautiful Letdown (Our Version) and went on a subsequent tour playing the entire album live.

Style and influences
Since Switchfoot's first release in 1997, the band's sound has changed significantly. The style of the early albums with independent label re:think Records consisted primarily of guitar-driven alternative rock, hard rock with characteristics of a three-man lineup, though they also incorporated string arrangements with slower songs.

Switchfoot's frontman and guitarist Jon Foreman cites his musical influences as U2, The Beatles, and Keith Green, and has said that he admires the vocal "strength and vulnerability" of Bob Dylan and Johnny Cash. Guitarist Drew Shirley cites U2, Miles Davis, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Tommy Walker, Phil Keaggy, Michael Jackson, Dave Matthews Band, and the Brand New Heavies, while bassist Tim Foreman pays tribute to Stevie Wonder. Chad Butler also cites Dave Grohl as an influence for The Beautiful Letdown. "We've never fit in any of the genre boxes," says Jon Foreman. "I think that diversity is our strength".With regard to their lyrics, Foreman notes "we try to make music for thinking people", which can be characterized by his allusions to the works of philosophers like Søren Kierkegaard and Augustine of Hippo in the songs "Sooner or Later (Soren's Song)" and "Something More (Augustine's Confession)" respectively. "Meant to Live", the band's runaway hit, was inspired by T. S. Eliot's poem "The Hollow Men", while "Stars", the lead single off Nothing Is Sound, briefly "looks at things from the Descartes perspective," according to Foreman.

Switchfoot and Christian music
Switchfoot is often referred to as a Christian rock band; even after having been signed to the mainstream Columbia Records from 2003–2007, Atlantic Records from 2008–2016, and currently, Vanguard Records, their albums are still distributed to Christian retail outlets through Sparrow Records/EMI CMG, their songs are featured on Christian radio and charts, they play at Christian festivals, and they are presented with Dove Awards. The band has always philosophically disagreed with this label; "We're Christian by faith, not genre," Tim Foreman explained to Rolling Stone magazine in 2003.Says Jon Foreman, "We've always been very open and honest about where the songs are coming from. For us, these songs are for everyone. Calling us 'Christian rock' tends to be a box that closes some people out and excludes them, and that's not what we're trying to do. Music has always opened my mind—and that's what we want"."[Signing to Columbia was] a realization of something that we'd wanted to be from the beginning," Foreman explains. "When we were signed to re:think Records [an indie label], the goal was to get the music out to everybody. [But] when Sparrow [a Christian label] bought re:think Records, it was evident that our music wasn't going to be in the hands of everybody. As a Christian, I have a lot to say within the walls of the church. But also, as a Christian, I've got a lot to say just about life in general ... So to be able to be on Columbia and on Sparrow felt like the realization of the two sides of what we had to say. It's a dream come true to be able to have songs that are outside of the box."Following the release of The Beautiful Letdown, the band temporarily stopped playing at Christian festivals and doing interviews with Christian organizations, as they found the speculation about their faith to be distracting from the music. Three years later, they went back to headlining at large Christian-based music festivals, and also agreed to be featured on the June 2006 cover of CCM Magazine after declining the opportunity for years. Yet in many ways they used the opportunity to describe their split from the CCM industry. This has caused some, such as Spin writer Andrew Beaujon, to take the view that "their lyrics often have two different meanings, one meaning for a Christian audience and one meaning for the rest of us. They try to relate to two different groups of people at once." Jon Foreman has compared the Christian undertones of his music to the undertones of C.S. Lewis's books.

Other projects
Switchfoot has been involved in a number of humanitarian causes, including DATA, the ONE Campaign, the Keep A Breast Foundation, Habitat for Humanity, Invisible Children, and To Write Love on Her Arms.In addition to supporting those causes, they founded the Switchfoot Bro-Am Surf Contest, an annual benefit contest and concert to raise money for various organizations serving homeless kids in the band's hometown of San Diego. Also, before recording Nothing Is Sound, the band made a trip to several South African villages in January 2005, which inspired the album's song "The Shadow Proves the Sunshine". Seeing an orphanage filled with infants who all lost their parents to AIDS, befriending orphans in the streets, and getting involved with a children's choir called the "Kuyasa Kids" moved them to start an organization called lowercase people. The organization originally published a quarterly online magazine for music, arts and social justice. They have also produced a CD by the Kuyasa Kids to help raise money for the children's communities.
In 2008, Switchfoot also got involved in the musical movement to spread awareness about 21st century slavery and human trafficking, performing "Awakening" for the documentary film Call + Response.
Jon Foreman has also released several solo projects, and is also involved in an acoustic collaboration called Fiction Family with Sean Watkins of the band Nickel Creek.On Saturday, July 31, 2010, Switchfoot performed live at the 2010 Boy Scouts of America National Jamboree final arena show: "A Shining Light Across America" in Fort A.P. Hill, Virginia. Jon and Tim Foreman were both Boy Scouts in their youth, and were honored by the opportunity to perform at the Scouts' 100th anniversary event.Switchfoot performed at the Harvest America event on March 6, 2016 at ATT Stadium.Switchfoot hosts a yearly charity event in their hometown of San Diego known as the "Bro Am". Established in 2005, the event benefits local and national charitable organizations, including the band's own Bro Am foundation. The Bro Am festivities typically include a silent auction the night before the public event, wherein donors bid in a silent auction for charity. The Bro Am event consists of surf contests in the morning and musical performances in the afternoon, culminating in Switchfoot's capstone performance. Since its inception, the Bro Am has raised over $1 million for charitable causes.In 2017, Switchfoot joined forces with the fellow rock band Lifehouse, to help raise funds for Hurricane Harvey victims through their song "Shine Like Gold”.

Members
Current membersJon Foreman – lead vocals, keyboards, piano (1996–present); lead guitar (1996–2004, 2022–present); rhythm guitar (1996–2001, 2005–2022 in studio; 2005–present live)
Tim Foreman – bass, backing and occasional lead vocals, occasional acoustic guitar (1996–present), keyboards (2000–2001)
Chad Butler – drums, percussion (1996–present)
Jerome Fontamillas – keyboards, piano, rhythm guitar, backing vocals (2001–present)Current touring musiciansBoaz Roberts – lead guitar, backing vocals (2021–present)Former membersDrew Shirley – lead guitar, backing vocals (2005–2022; touring musician 2004–2005)Timeline

Discography
The Legend of Chin (1997)
New Way to Be Human (1999)
Learning to Breathe (2000)
The Beautiful Letdown (2003)
Nothing Is Sound (2005)
Oh! Gravity. (2006)
Hello Hurricane (2009)
Vice Verses (2011)
Fading West (2014)
Where the Light Shines Through (2016)
Native Tongue (2019)
Interrobang (2021)
This Is Our Christmas Album (2022)
The Beautiful Letdown (Our Version) (2023)

Awards
Switchfoot won a Grammy Award for Best Rock or Rap Gospel Album in 2011 with Hello Hurricane. They've also garnered eleven GMA Dove Awards and twelve San Diego Music Awards.
Passage 5:
Raygun (album)
Raygun is an EP released by the Matthew Good Band in 1997. The EP was distributed by A&M Records on Matthew Good's own imprint, Darktown. It was the first MGB album recorded with guitarist Dave Genn as an official member of the band. The EP includes a re-recorded version of Last of the Ghetto Astronauts song, "Haven't Slept In Years".

Track listing
All tracks written by Matthew Good, except where noted.

"Raygun"  – 3:17
"Generation X-Wing"  – 4:32 (Good, Genn)
"Haven't Slept In Years (Alternate)"  – 3:31
"Alabama Motel Room"  – 3:22 (Good, Lloyd, Browne)
"So Long Mrs. Smith"  – 1:36

Production
Produced and engineered by Dale Penner for Paradise Alley Productions. Mixed by Clif Norrell at Ocean Way Recording, Los Angeles, CA, except Alabama Motel Room, which was produced and engineered by John Shepp and remixed by Clif Norrell. Recorded at Greenhouse Studios and Utopia Parkway Studios, Vancouver, BC. Mastered by Stephen Marcussen at Precision Mastering, Los Angeles, CA.

Band members
Matthew Good - vocals, guitar
Geoff Lloyd - bass guitar
Ian Browne - drums
Dave Genn - guitar, keyboards
Passage 6:
Rich Priske
Rich Priske (August 29, 1967 –  July 11, 2020), also known as Rich Rock, was a Canadian bass guitarist. Born in Vancouver, British Columbia, he had long been active in the B.C. music scene, and played bass guitar and/or written songs for Art Bergmann, DSK, ShoCore, Chrome Dog, Bif Naked, The Real McKenzies, and others. Priske was best known for playing bass guitar in the Canadian band Matthew Good Band from 1998 to 2002. After the band's dissolution in 2002, he kept playing with Matthew Good until the end of the In a Coma tour in fall 2005. Later in life, he lived in Kelowna and played in the Jon Bos Band and Florida Man.

Writing
Priske was an avid writer, contributing to weblogs as a "citizen journalist" for kitsilano.ca, and others. He contributed many technical and instructional articles to magazines such as CM (Canadian Musician). Priske also wrote for Wine Trails, and other wine-industry publications. He had a long history with the web, and was an early adopter of what is now known as "web logging" or "blogging", beginning with his popular "Notes From The Road" feature on the now defunct Matthew Good Band website, circa 2001. He kept a blog on Blogger, but updated it rarely.

Film work
Priske was also involved in BC's thriving film and theatre industry, on stage and both in front of and behind the camera. As well as appearing in many music videos, he had bit parts in films like Red Scorpion 2, and Hard Core Logo, and appeared on stage in productions of Cabaret and You Can't Take It with You. Behind the scenes, Priske was active in the Art Department, earning an Emmy nomination for 2008's "Tinman".

Death
On July 11, 2020, Priske died of a heart attack.

Discography
with Matthew Good Band:

Beautiful Midnight
Loser Anthems
The Audio of Beingwith Matthew Good:

Avalanche
White Light Rock & Roll Review
In a Comawith DSK:

Exploder
Imploderwith Bif Naked:

Bif Naked
Essentially Naked (greatest hits compilation)with The Real McKenzies:

Real McKenzies
Clash of the Tartanswith ShoCore:

untitled release (2007)with Brooke Nolan:

self-titled EPwith The Town Pants:

Weight of WordsSex With Nixon (1995) Self titled LP
Passage 7:
Weapon (song)
"Weapon" is a song by Canadian alternative rock artist Matthew Good. It was the first song released by Good as a solo artist after the break-up of the Matthew Good Band. The song was released in October 2002 as the lead single from his debut solo album, Avalanche.  The song peaked at No. 4 on Canada's Nielsen rock chart.

Track listing
Music video
The music video for "Weapon" was directed by Matthew Good and Ante Kovac. It was filmed on October 5, 2002, at Pier 94. In a later commentary, Good related that Kovac's first edit of the video was far too standard, with gratuitous and generic fades. After firing Kovac, Good flew to Toronto and worked with video editor Jay Deschamps to re-craft the footage. While working on the edit, Good began to experiment with overlaying text and adding still frames and stock photos to help deliver the message. Good noted that the video was his favourite from his catalogue.
The video won the award for "Best Video" at the 2003 Juno Awards. Good did not attend the ceremony and Kovac accepted the award alone.

In popular culture
The song is featured on MuchMusic's compilation album Big Shiny Tunes 7.
An excerpt of the song was used as the opening credits theme music for CTV's series The Eleventh Hour.
The song was featured on Hockey Night in Canada in the opening montage for Game 5 of the 2011 Stanley Cup Finals.
"Weapon" was also featured in the second-season finale of Smallville.
The song is used in the second-season episode "A Higher Echelon" of the J. J. Abrams series Alias.
The song appears in the third season of Queer As Folk.
The song was featured in the first season of Flashpoint in the episode "Between Heartbeats".
Passage 8:
Ian Browne (musician)
Ian Browne (born November 12, 1973) is a Canadian-born musician and composer. He was formerly with psych-blues band No Sinner, and before that notably the drummer of the popular Canadian rock group Matthew Good Band. Browne plays drums and performs backup vocals on The Prettys' upcoming second LP "Soirée". He also played on No Sinner's debut EP Boo Hoo Hoo, and played drums and produced tracks on their 2016 LP "Old Habits Die Hard". He can also be heard on the Matthew Good Band albums Last of the Ghetto Astronauts, Raygun, Underdogs, Lo-Fi B-Sides, Beautiful Midnight, Loser Anthems, Audio of Being, and the greatest hits compilation In a Coma.
While with Matthew Good Band, Browne received Juno Awards in 2000 for Best Group of 1999 and Best Rock Album  of 1999. Browne also composed original music for the Sci-Fi network series Sanctuary. He now records and performs with The Prettys and occasionally other Vancouver, British Columbia based artists Rich Hope and Dustin Bentall.
As a composer, his work can be heard on the science fiction series Flash Gordon and Sanctuary. And Now and forever he’s playing in The Pierce Kingans , recording/playing on over 13 EPs.
Passage 9:
Yes to Everything
Yes to Everything is a 2005 album by Canadian alternative rock band 54-40. This was the first 54-40 album recorded with the band's new guitarist, Dave Genn (former guitarist of Matthew Good Band).  The album was recorded at The Warehouse Studio in Vancouver using former Midnight Oil and Matthew Good producer Warne Livesey.

Track listing
"Easy to Love" – 3:48
"Can't Get Enough" – 3:58
"Golden Sun" – 4:35
"Stop Line" – 6:05
"This Is Here, This Is Now" – 4:21
"All About Love" – 3:12
"Blue Plate Special" – 3:44
"Beautiful Self" – 3:38
"Calling You Out" – 3:00
"Another Kiss" – 3:06
"On the Road Home" – 3:58