Passage 1:
Robinsons Place Butuan
Robinsons Butuan (formerly Robinsons Place Butuan) is a shopping mall located in Jose C. Aquino Avenue (Butuan–Cagayan de Oro–Iligan Road), Brgy. Bayanihan, Butuan. It is Robinsons Land's 33rd commercial center in the Philippines and the 4th Robinsons Mall in Mindanao after Robinsons Cagayan de Oro, Robinsons Cybergate Davao and Robinsons Place Gensan. It covers an area of over 58,300 square metres (628,000 sq ft) making it the largest Robinsons Mall in Mindanao. It was opened to the public on November 25, 2013. The mall also features 102-room hotel component that occupies 4th and 5th levels in the east wing of the building. One of the mall's main tenants is the DFA CO Butuan, the first passport office of the Department of Foreign Affairs in the Caraga region which opened in June 2015 at the mall's third level. An expansion wing, located beside the mall, was opened on August 2, 2017, and will feature more shops and restaurants plus the new integrated land transport terminal (bound for travel to and from Cagayan de Oro, Malaybalay and Davao City except for Surigao City, which is based in the old Langihan Bus Terminal).

See also
Robinsons Malls
SM City Butuan
List of shopping malls in the Philippines
Passage 2:
Robinsons Novaliches
Robinsons Novaliches (formerly known as Robinsons Place Novaliches and Robinsons Nova Market) is a shopping mall in Fairview owned and operated by Robinsons Malls, the second largest mall operator in the Philippines. This mall was opened on November 9, 2001. It is the second mall by Robinsons Malls in Quezon City after Robinsons Galleria. It has a total floor area of 62,893 m2 (676,970 sq ft).

Redevelopment and expansion
In 2008, Robinsons Place Novaliches was renamed to Robinsons Nova Market. Robinsons Department Store was closed then Bargain Exchange was replaced and several stores pulled out and it opened an opportunity for micro-retails. In 2010, Robinsons Movieworld Novaliches closed Cinemas 5 to 8 being rented by some Christian Churches inside the mall. Examples of some Christian churches that rented Cinemas 5-8 are Word of Hope Christian Church which occupies Cinemas 5 and 6 and Victory Christian Church which occupies Cinema 7. In 2012, Cinemas 1 to 4 has permanently closed and it is open for rentals for some Christian Churches and for others.
The mall had undergone major renovation and expansion against Ayala Malls' Fairview Terraces and SM Prime Holdings' SM City Fairview. The said expansion houses over 200 micro-retail shops and bargain stores selling apparel, shoes and bags, novelty and gift items and gadgets; food court, Trade Hall, and al fresco dining restaurants. It was opened on May 29, 2015. It added another 10,000 m2 (110,000 sq ft) to the 45,893 m2 (493,990 sq ft) square meters so it will have a total floor area of 55,893 m2 (601,630 sq ft) square meters. And eventually after the expansion, it was renamed as Robinsons Novaliches. 
Moreover, Robinsons Digiworld was opened at the Level 2 of the Main Mall which occupies the old location of some bargain things and a passport office of the Department of Foreign Affairs called DFA CO NCR-North was also opened at the Level 3 near the former Robinsons Movieworld Novaliches in November 2016.

See also
Fairview Terraces
SM City Fairview
Robinsons Magnolia
List of shopping malls in Metro Manila
Passage 3:
Robinsons Place Las Piñas
Robinsons Las Piñas (formerly Robinsons Place Las Piñas) is a shopping mall and mixed-use development in Las Piñas, Philippines. It is located on the north side of Alabang–Zapote Road between CAA Road and Admiral Road in Talon Tres. The mall is owned and managed by Robinsons Land Corporation, the second largest mall operator in the Philippines. The mall opened on October 25, 2014. It is the 39th mall opened by Robinsons in the Philippines and the first and only Robinsons mall in Las Piñas and the whole South Manila area.

Description
Robinsons Las Piñas sits on a 6.8-hectare (17-acre) lot on the busy Alabang-Zapote Road in close proximity to several heavily populated and middle-class subdivisions in the south Manila area of Las Piñas and Parañaque such as BF Homes, CAA-BF International, Casimiro Village and BF Resort Village. It has a gross floor area of 59,877 square metres (644,510 sq ft) with a gross leasable area of 25,734 square metres (277,000 sq ft). The two-storey shopping center is anchored by Robinsons staples like Robinsons Department Store, Robinsons Supermarket, Robinsons Appliances and Robinsons MovieWorld. The mall is also part of a mixed-use development that will also consist of a mid-rise residential complex of Robinsons Communities.
Passage 4:
Robinsons Galleria Cebu
Robinsons Galleria Cebu, also known and branded as Galleria Cebu, is a shopping mall and mixed-use development located in North Reclamation Area, Cebu City. It is the 2nd Robinsons Mall to bear the Galleria branding after Robinsons Galleria. The mall opened on December 10, 2015. The mall is just a few meters from the Port of Cebu and approximately 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) away from SM City Cebu. The mall is owned and operated by Robinsons Malls. It is the firm's third largest mall (after Robinsons Place Manila and its namesake, Robinsons Galleria, in Ortigas, Metro Manila).

History
In 2008, Robinsons Land, Inc. announced that they have bought a 4-hectare (9.9-acre) prime property near the Port of Cebu. The company bared that they planned to build a mall, a three-storey BPO tower, a 153-room Go Hotel (which would have been the first in Cebu), 9,000 m2 (97,000 sq ft) of office space and a couple of high-rise condominiums. The development was initially called Robinsons Maxilom, named after General Maxilom Avenue, the road it directly borders to. The project was then renamed to its current name a couple of years later. The project broke ground in July 2012 and construction followed soon. The mall opened on December 10, 2015, exactly two weeks after another mall, SM Seaside City Cebu by rival group SM Supermalls opened.

Mall features
The main mall is four storeys tall, while a BPO building with a total floor space of 9,000 m2 (97,000 sq ft) is three storeys tall. There will be six cinemas in the mall. The mall also has an al fresco dining area and the mall's interiors feature lush gardens. When the whole development is finished, it will have a 153-room hotel named Summit Galleria Hotel, BPO towers, and three high-rise condominiums (which will be located at the back of the mall).

Incidents
December 10, 2022 4:20 PM.
The nearby abandoned White Gold Shopping Mall, collapsed due to weathering, and traffic congestion. Some of the nearby roads had to be temporarily closed. Including B. Benedicto St, in which neighbors the mall on the northwest, near the Summit Hotel. However, the mall has not been damage, nor injured anyone on B. Benedicto St, near the mall, or in the abandoned building.
Passage 5:
Robinsons Place Manila
Robinsons Manila (formerly Robinsons Place Manila), also known as Robinsons Ermita and Robinsons Place Ermita, is a large shopping mall located in Ermita, Manila, Philippines. It is the largest Robinsons Mall ever built. Robinsons Manila is located beside the University of the Philippines Manila and the Philippine General Hospital, and is built at the site of the former Ateneo de Manila Campus before it moved to Loyola Heights, Quezon City. The first major expansion of the mall happened when it opened its Padre Faura Wing in June 2000. The mall was further expanded in 2006 when the nearby Midtown Hotel was demolished to make way for the construction of its Midtown Wing and the Adriatico Place Residences
Robinsons Manila is connected to two high-rise residential condominiums: the 37-storey twin tower Robinsons Place Residences, and the triple tower Adriatico Place Residences.

History
Robinsons Manila was built in the 1980, on the site of the former Ateneo de Manila University Campus and Assumption Convent located beside the University of the Philippines Manila and the Philippine General Hospital. Ateneo transferred to Loyola Heights, Quezon City while the Convent relocated to San Lorenzo Village, Makati.
In June 2000, the mall was expanded with the opening of the Padre Faura Wing which contains additional shopping and dining facilities. It is also anchored by the construction of the 37-storey, twin tower residential condominium Robinsons Place Residences. Further demand in the market expanded the mall with the acquisition of the Manila Midtown Hotel Until 2003 and demolishing it to make way for its Midtown Wing, which is also anchored by another residential condominium project the Adriatico Place Residences. Midtown wing opened in 2008. This expansion made the mall larger than Robinsons Galleria and therefore the largest Robinsons Mall.
It was reported by BusinessWorld in November 2018 that Robinsons Land Corporation plans to renovate Robinsons Manila in 2019. The mall is undergoing major redevelopment since February 2023.

Layout
Padre Faura Wing
The 2-level Padre Faura Wing faces Padre Faura Street and is connected to Robinsons Place Residences. The arrangement of its entry point as well as the tower makes the mall the focal point when traversing Ma. Y. Orosa Avenue southwards. It is near the Philippine General Hospital, the Office of the University Registrar of UP Manila, as well as the Department of Justice, Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court of the Philippines. The Jesuit Bell which was once located on the site of the former Manila Observatory was on display at the entrance.
The wing is also home to Lingkod Pinoy Center, which hosts branches of government offices such as Professional Regulation Commission, Land Transportation Office, and clearance office of the National Bureau of Investigation. The mall's multilevel carpark entry ramp connects to the 3rd Level Carpark of the mall.

Midtown Wing
The Midtown Wing is the expansion of the original mall facing Adriatico Street. It was constructed on the adjacent lot located at the former Manila Midtown Hotel which was demolished to make way for this expansion. A lot of high-end shops and boutiques serves as its tenants. The Robinsons Department Store and its Business Center are located here. It is connected to Adriatico Place Residences, a triple tower residential condominium managed by RLC Residences.
Alongside shops and restaurants, it also features three additional cinemas, an expanded atrium, arcades such as Tom's World and Timezone, and an al fresco veranda. It has a basement parking shared with the Pedro Gil Wing, however it is not connected to the P. Faura Wing Basement Carpark.

Pedro Gil Wing
The original structure of the mall, the Pedro Gil Wing faces Pedro Gil Street and features most of the mall's fashion brands including H&M, tech shops, sit-down restaurants, and the main wing of Robinsons Movieworld. The wing has a bowling center named Paeng's Midtown Bowl at the second level which closed in 2019 for renovations and reopened on January 2023. Timezone occupies a part of the bowling alley's space.
A family entertainment center named GBox used to occupy a large space at the mall's foodcourt area alongside Fitness First, which the former has been closed since 2012 and only a small area is currently operational, occupied by electronics repair shops.

Gallery
Passage 6:
Robinsons Metro East
Robinsons Metro East (formerly known as Robinsons Place Metro East) is a shopping mall owned by Robinsons Malls. Robinsons Metro East is situated along Marcos Highway, located at Barangay Dela Paz in Pasig, Philippines. The mall opened on August 31, 2001, is currently the 3rd largest mall in the Philippines owned by Robinsons Malls.

History
The location was first occupied by a Uniwide Warehouse owned by Jimmy Gow's Uniwide Sales, Inc. and was subsequently sold to Gokongwei, who demolished the warehouse. Construction of the mall began in mid-1998, and Robinsons Metro East opened its doors to the public in 2001. 
The name "Metro East" refers to the fact that the mall is located in the eastern district of the Greater Manila Area, which is in the boundaries of the cities of Pasig and Marikina in Metro Manila and the municipality of Cainta in Rizal.
On September 26, 2009, the basement level of the mall was flooded as a result of Typhoon Ketsana. This, in turn, led to the closure of the entire mall. Renovation of the mall began in August 2011 and was completed in 2012.The mall is connected to the Marikina-Pasig station of the LRT Line 2. An extension of the mall that links to the station's concourse opened in 2022.

Mall features
The main building of Metro East is one of the largest structures along Marcos Highway. The mall is a 5-level building with 4 upper levels and a basement level, features a 2-level department store, a supermarket, appliance center, Toys R Us, Timezone, and movie theaters. The mall also provides a 5-level elevated indoor carpark located on the left side of the mall.

See also
Robinsons Galleria
Sta. Lucia Mall
SM City Marikina
Passage 7:
SM City Cebu
SM City Cebu, also known as SM Cebu, and sometimes both known locally as SM Mabolo and SM City, is a large shopping mall located in Mabolo, Cebu City, Philippines. It is the 4th shopping mall owned and developed by SM Prime Holdings, the country's largest shopping mall owner and developer. It is the company's first shopping mall in the Philippines outside of Metro Manila and the fifth largest shopping mall in the Philippines. It has a land area of 11.8 hectares (29 acres) and a gross floor area of 268,611 m2 (2,891,300 sq ft)On an average day, more than 100,000 people visit SM City Cebu, with the figure increasing to 140,000 to 150,000 on weekends. Due to Cebu City's position as a transshipment point for the Visayas and Mindanao, and SM City Cebu's location close to the city's port area, the mall attracts a significant number of transient shoppers.

History
Development
The mall, the first SM Supermall outside of Metro Manila, opened on November 27, 1993, with a gross floor area of 161,562 square metres (1,739,040 sq ft). It was seen as catering to the broad low- and middle-class shoppers, in contrast to its upscale competitor, the Ayala Corporation-owned Ayala Center Cebu which opened a few months later.
Located in Cebu City's North Reclamation Area, then a quiet and relatively remote part of the city, the mall had Manila-based movie and television stars and entertainers perform free concerts at the mall to attract shoppers. Free jeepney rides to the mall were also offered to fulfill the lack of available public transportation within the area.

Northwing
Construction on SM City Cebu's expansion building, dubbed the Northwing, began in March 2006. The expansion, which was developed at a cost of ₱1.3 billion (US$30.5 million), was built on the parking lot to the north of the existing building, temporarily decreasing the number of parking spaces by more than 30%.  Construction of the Northwing started in April 2006, and opened on November 30, 2007. It increased the total gross floor area of SM City Cebu by 107,049 m2 (1,152,270 sq ft), for a total of 268,611 m2 (2,891,300 sq ft). The first 2 floors are for the mall's expansion, while the 3rd, 4th and 5th floors are for the indoor carpark including the roof deck.

Northwing Expansion
An expansion is planned for the Northwing, which will also include two 20-storey office buildings intended to cater to business process outsourcing companies, as well as a 9-storey building which will house a campus of National University. It is set to be completed by 2025. At the same time, a major renovation of its interior is ongoing, starting with the area near Ace Hardware and SM Appliance Center.

Design
SM City Cebu is a seven-level complex namely lower ground floor, upper ground floor, second floor, third floor, fourth floor, fifth floor, and roof deck featuring a total of eight cinemas with seven regular cinemas and one IMAX theater with a total seating capacity of 5,812, a food court, a fully computerized bowling center, 8,000-square meter amusement center, and a 2,000-square meter trade hall. Prior to the addition of the Northwing, it had a car park capacity of 1,629.The Northwing expansion, opened in 2007, features two floors of retail stores, restaurants, and cafes. It houses more than 200 tenants and caters to a more upscale clientele. The expansion also added three levels of covered parking, and a one level of roof deck parking.

Transport
The Cebu North Bus Terminal is situated inside the mall compound opposite the mall's parking area with the lot granted by SM Prime for free for a period of two years, after its lease in its former location in Subangdaku, Mandaue expired in early 2020. It was officially opened on October 12, 2020, with full operations starting on October 15, 2020.

See also
SM City Consolacion
SM Seaside City
Passage 8:
Robinsons Galleria
Robinsons Galleria, also known as Robinsons Galleria Ortigas, is a mixed-use complex and shopping mall located at EDSA corner Ortigas Avenue, Quezon City, just near SM Megamall. The mall is owned by Robinsons Malls, and it is their flagship mall. It is the 1st Robinsons Mall to bear the Galleria branding.  It was built on January 12, 1990, with a total gross floor area of approximately 216,000 m2 (2,330,000 sq ft).

The mall
Robinsons Galleria is a 5-level shopping mall and a landmark along EDSA and Ortigas Avenue with more than 400 shops, dining outlets, entertainment facilities, and service centers. It is located within a mixed-use complex composed of two high-rise office towers, the Galleria Corporate Center and Robinsons Equitable Tower. Three hotels are also located among the said towers, the Holiday Inn Manila Galleria and Crowne Plaza Manila Galleria, and the Galleria Regency.
A major tenant of the mall is the central passport office of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Metro Manila called DFA Consular Office NCR-Central, which is located on the first floor of the Lingkod Pinoy Center, and which was inaugurated in September 2012.

History
The mall's location was once an open land owned by the SSS in the Ortigas Central Business District. In February 1986, the portion of the land facing EDSA was where participants in the People Power Revolution also protested; tanks going north to Camp Aguinaldo and Camp Crame were stopped at this spot. In 1987, John Gokongwei bought the large portion of the land from the SSS, while the Archdiocese of Manila had partly purchased the portion of the land near the intersection. This plot today is the site of EDSA Shrine, which belongs to the Archdiocese up to date.
Construction began in mid-1988 and finished in late 1989. The mall opened in 1990, being the first mall of Robinsons Malls. Since its opening, several renovations had made within the mall, expanding its area to 216,000 square meters.

Incidents
March 2012 robbery
On March 29, 2012, one guard was killed and six others wounded after two armed robbers lobbed a couple of grenades while fleeing with their loot. The Philippine National Police spokesman Chief Superintendent Agrimero Cruz Jr. said that by 10:15 AM, two unidentified suspects in disguise as guards attacked two bank guards who were escorting bank tellers and were supposed to deliver an undetermined amount of money in a money changer shop at the mall's ground floor.

October 2013 fire
On October 29, 2013, a fire broke out inside the department store's toy section. The fire started at around 11:00 PM when the employees who were decorating Christmas lights inside the mall rushed out the mall to flee the premises. Guests from the Holiday Inn evacuated and moved to the adjacent Crowne Plaza Hotel. The fire raged for about six hours. The fire was under control the next morning, and the mall was closed for two days. The mall soon reopened by noon on November 1, 2013.

Redevelopment
The mall had gone for several renovations since it opened in 1990. In 2012, the mall took its major facelift with additional GLA of around 100,000 square meters that can cater at least 50 tenants. The said developments expanded the mall's GLA to what is now 216,000 square meters.The latest redevelopment had started in 2016. It will be done in 2 phases with its first phase of renovation from May to October 2016 while the second phase was to start in May 2017. Aside from the major renovations within the mall, the mall veranda will host more service stores related to health and beauty. There will be an upper veranda at the 3rd floor, formerly occupying the sports loop, which will accommodate more dining choices. The mall's renovation is almost complete.
The mall's renovation will add wooden elements into the mall, a design similar to Robinsons Galleria Cebu.

In popular culture
An urban legend relating to the mall flourished in the 1990s, which claimed of a half-snake, half-human creature that resided in the basement of the mall and purported to be a lucky charm installed by the Gokongwei family, feeding it with unsuspecting victims from a supposed shaft from a dressing room. Among its supposed victims were actresses Alice Dixson and Rita Avila. Although the rumor is now considered absurd and dead, it was revived in 2010 after a supposed YouTube video depicting it surfaced. Businesswoman Robina Gokongwei-Pe asserted in 2008 that the tale emerged from the "market competition". Dixson herself dismissed the entire narrative as fake, and in 2020 she finally put the entire tale to rest through a YouTube video.  She had appeared in a videographic advertisement by Robinsons Galleria two years earlier, poking fun of and lampooning the extinct urban legend.
Passage 9:
Robinsons Town Mall Malabon
Robinsons Malabon (formerly Robinsons Town Mall Malabon) is a shopping mall located in Malabon, Metro Manila, Philippines. It is the first full service mall in Malabon owned and managed by Robinsons Land Corporation, the second largest mall operator in the Philippines. The mall was opened on December 4, 2013. It is the 37th mall opened by Robinsons in the Philippines and the first and only Robinsons mall in Malabon and the whole Camanava (North Metro Manila) area.

Description
Robinsons Town Mall sits on a 23,000-square-metre (250,000 sq ft) lot on the intersection of Governor Pascual Avenue and Crispin Street in Tinajeros village. It has a gross leasable area of 17,104.83 square metres (184,114.9 sq ft) and can house over 250 tenants. The two-level shopping center is anchored. It also features a Lingkod Pinoy government services center. It is one of the two main shopping centers in Malabon along with Malabon Citisquare.

See also
SM Center Sangandaan
Passage 10:
SM Megamall
SM Megamall, simply known as Megamall, is the third largest shopping mall in the Philippines and the thirteenth largest in the world that is developed and operated by SM Prime Holdings. It is located in EDSA corner Doña Julia Vargas Avenue, Ortigas Center, Mandaluyong, Metro Manila, Philippines. The mall occupies a land area of approximately 10 hectares (25 acres) and has a total floor area of 474,000 square meters (5,100,000 sq ft). The mall has a maximum capacity of 4 million people.

History
Henry Sy Sr. through First Asia Realty loaned ₱1 billion from the Philippine National Bank and Citibank, an unprecedented amount at the time, in April 1989 to fund the development of SM Megamall. The mall began construction in 1989 and opened its doors on June 28, 1991. It is the third SM Supermall ever built by Sy after the SM City Sta. Mesa and SM North EDSA. The SM Megamall was the largest mall in the country for a 17-year period, but when the SM Mall of Asia was built in 2006, it was ranked third largest in the country by floor area at that time, measuring 331,679 m2 (3,570,160 sq ft) of total retail floor area and after SM City North EDSA (which ranks first in the country and second in the world). It also boasted the first ice skating rink, which was temporarily removed in 2009 but was replaced by the new skating rink at a new location in 2014, as well as one of the first trade halls, the Mega Trade Hall, in the country. The new skating rink was the venue for the speed skating and figure skating at the 2019 Southeast Asian Games.Since its inception in 1991, SM Megamall expanded with the addition of the Mega Atrium in 2008, Building C in 2011 and the Mega Fashion Hall in 2014, bringing the total retail floor area to 474,000 m2 (5,100,000 sq ft). In 2018, SM partnered with Cal-Comp Technology (Philippines) Inc. for the provision of its New Era AI (Artificial Intelligence) Robotic service robots stationed at SM Megamall by the first quarter of 2019.

Location
The mall is located in the Ortigas Center, one of Metro Manila's premier central business districts and shopping hubs, at the portion encompassed by Mandaluyong City. It stands along the main EDSA thoroughfare and Doña Julia Vargas Avenue. The mall is almost adjacent to the Ortigas MRT Station and EDSA Carousel's Ortigas station, as well as the Shaw Boulevard MRT station. The mall is also located to nearby malls such as the Robinsons Galleria, St. Francis Square, The Podium, the Shangri-La Plaza, and Starmall EDSA Shaw and landmarks such as the Asian Development Bank Headquarters, Saint Pedro Poveda College, University of Asia and the Pacific, BDO Corporate Center, The Podium West Tower and the San Miguel Corporation Headquarters.

Buildings
The mall currently has 968 shops and is separated into five buildings, namely Building A, Building B, Building C; Building D, which is also known as the Mega Fashion Hall; and the Mega Atrium.

Main Mall
The mall has two main buildings. Building A features the 12 digital cinemas on the third floor; a food court, events hall and the Toy Kingdom on the lower ground floor, art stores on the fifth floor, and other anchor tenants. It also features Forever 21 located on the second level of Building A. Building B features SM Store, the Ace Hardware store on the lower ground floor, the Cyberzone on the fourth floor, the Mega Trade Hall on the fifth floor, and other anchor tenants. It has been expanded and has direct connections with the Mega Fashion Hall which opened in January 2014. The SM Supermarket is featured on both buildings. The bridgeway connecting the two main buildings of the mall contains several eateries.

Mega Atrium
The 16,000 m2 (170,000 sq ft) Mega Atrium is an addition to the existing two buildings. The Atrium, completed in 2008, bridges the gap between Buildings A and B. It features Chapel of the Eucharistic Lord, a 1,585 m2 (17,060 sq ft) Roman Catholic chapel located on the fifth floor, as well as various shops and restaurants. The atrium also features the Garden at Mega Atrium, an indoor garden located within the second floor, and also includes the Respira Café, a coffee and pastry shop offering European confectionaries.

Building C
Building C is a recent addition to SM Megamall that houses office space on the upper levels of the carpark and a transport terminal, which includes an integrated bus terminal serving the north of Metro Manila including CAMANAVA, Quezon City and further to Bulacan and Calabarzon. Formerly Building A's open-parking facility, it is located near EDSA to the west of Building A and was opened on October 11, 2011. The building also contains the 1,300-square-meter (14,000 sq ft) DFA CO NCR-East, the first passport office of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Metro Manila which opened in August 2012.

Mega Fashion Hall (Building D)
The Mega Fashion Hall is the latest expansion of SM Megamall. Featuring a two-level basement parking and a five-level mall with 86,000 m2 (930,000 sq ft) of retail, it houses several global clothing retailers, an events hall, and additional restaurants and shops, including the three-level H&M store and the three-level Uniqlo which extends to the two uppermost levels of Building B. Aside from clothing stores, the expansion includes dining establishments, houseware stores, service shops, and a Bingo area on the fifth level. The Mega Fashion Hall also houses an IMAX Digital theater (which is also the eighth IMAX cinema in the country), a 56-seat Director's Club Cinema with butler service, an Olympic-sized ice skating rink (replacing the one removed in 2009 from the lower-ground level of Building A), an upscale food court (Mega Food Hall), and a 14-lane bowling center, the SM Bowling Center (also replacing the one removed in 2009 from the lower-ground level of Building A, now Toy Kingdom) . The fashion hall also features the BTS Pop-Up Store, located at the mall's third floor, and showcases over 400 BTS-branded products.

Time Sculpture
The Time Sculpture is a sculpture located fronting the Mega Fashion Hall. The sculpture was unveiled on August 2, 2021, and is designed by Filipino-American public artist Jefre Manuel Figueras, also known as JEFRË, and was made of stainless steel. The sculpture is part of the Baks "Box" Series, where he gives representation to people living in cities around the world, and resembles a man looking at his watch, which serves as reminder how time is important in our lives and to make use of time in traffic productively. JEFRË also converted the statue's head to a block, which connects the figures to surrounding urban architecture, and strengthens the image that people are a city's major component as the building blocks and the bloodline of the city.

Expansion
After the soft opening of the newly constructed Building C Carpark, the mall surpassed SM Mall of Asia by 2,000 m2 (22,000 sq ft) and became the second largest shopping mall in the country.
With the opening of the Mega Fashion Hall (Building D), the current gross leasable area is 500,000 m2 (5,400,000 sq ft), allowing the mall to reclaim the title of the largest mall in the Philippines.The addition of the Mega Fashion Hall building added 125 new retail stores, 90% of which are global brands and 10% of which are local retailers.

Mega Tower
A 50-storey 249.7 m (819 ft) office tower, named The Mega Tower, is built next to the Mega Fashion Hall formerly occupied by an open carpark. The S-shaped tower is directly connected to the Mega Fashion Hall and will feature three levels of basement parking and multilevel parking. It will have a leasable area of 124,200 m2 (1,337,000 sq ft). Groundbreaking began in March 2016, while the tower's construction phase began six months later on the same year, in September 2016. The tower was topped off in March 2020, and was opened in 2021.Arquitectonica is the firm responsible for the architectural design, while Aurecon serves as the tower's structural engineer consultant and New Golden City Builders serve as the general contractor for the project.

Gallery
In popular culture
In the idol anime, titled Love Live! Nijigasaki High School Idol Club, in its second season in Episode 13, the characters were seen in a giant LED screen in a mall which looked like SM Megamall's Fashion Hall, under the name "Largemall."

Incidents and accidents
2000 bombing
On May 21, 2000, a bomb exploded inside a restroom at Cinema 6 of the mall's movie theater located on the third floor. One person was killed and dozens were injured. Two of the victims sustained very serious injuries. The bombing occurred four days after the Glorietta 2 bombing which wounded 13 people. Seven years later, the 2007 blast in Glorietta injured 129 people, while leaving 12 people dead.

2013 incidents
January 26, 2013: A holdup and shootout occurred when the Martilyo Gang, a local criminal group specializing in robbing stores by smashing and stealing valuables using hammers, robbed a jewelry store in the department store on the first floor.
May 5, 2013: An explosion briefly caused panic at the foodcourt at Building A, with at least one reported hurt in a stampede before shoppers were able to calm down after learning the sounds were not gunshots. A siomai steamer was short-circuited and caused people to file out at around 7:25 PM

Fire incidents
June 29, 2018: A fire hit the under-construction SM Mega Tower near SM Mega Fashion Hall at around 7:30 PM. It was declared "fire out" at around 6 hours later, at 1:30 AM on the next day. The Metropolitan Manila Development Authority (MMDA) had announced in a tweet at 8:16 PM on Thursday that the blaze had already reached the third alarm. This meant that up to nine fire trucks should be deployed.
May 16, 2021: A fire broke out in Building C of the mall at 3:36 AM. The fire was put out 19 minutes later.
September 2, 2021: A fire hit the 27th floor of the under-construction SM Mega Tower around 10:26 AM, causing people in the building to be reportedly trapped.

See also
List of shopping malls in Metro Manila