Passage 1:
Whatever Happened, Happened
"Whatever Happened, Happened" is the 11th television episode of the fifth season of ABC's Lost. The 97th episode of the show overall, "Whatever Happened, Happened" aired April 1, 2009, on ABC in the United States. The episode was written by executive producers/show runners Damon Lindelof & Carlton Cuse and directed by "The Man Behind the Curtain" director Bobby Roth.In 1977, Kate Austen (Evangeline Lilly) goes to extreme measures to save young Benjamin Linus (Sterling Beaumon) when Jack Shephard (Matthew Fox) refuses to help. In flashbacks, Kate takes care of Sawyer's (Josh Holloway) favor and begins to tell the truth to protect Aaron (William Blanchette).

Plot
Flashbacks
Shortly after the Oceanic six's rescue, Kate Austen and a baby Aaron visit Cassidy, who is an ex-girlfriend of James "Sawyer" Ford. Kate gives Cassidy and Sawyer's daughter Clementine (Olivia Vickery) money from the severance pay from Oceanic. Cassidy deduces that Aaron is not Kate's baby, prompting her to tell her the truth about everything that happened on the island. Cassidy eventually leads Kate to realize that the reason she took Aaron as her own, is because Kate needed him in order to get over her emotional attachment to Sawyer. After the survivors's confrontation with Ben, Kate momentarily loses Aaron in a supermarket. She recovers it from a woman who bears a strong resemblance of Claire Littleton (Emilie de Ravin), Aaron's mother. After this, she decides to return to the island with the others who left. She leaves Aaron in the care of Carole Littleton (Susan Duerden), Aaron's biological grandmother. Kate also tells Carole that she is returning to the island to find Carole's daughter, Claire, and bring her home.

1977
After Sayid shoots a young Ben, Jin-Soo Kwon (Daniel Dae Kim) wakes up and notices the situation. He brings Ben to the barracks so that his injuries can be treated by Juliet Burke (Elizabeth Mitchell). Juliet is unable to perform the necessary surgery on Ben and sends James "Sawyer" Ford (Josh Holloway) to retrieve Jack Shephard (Matthew Fox), a spinal surgeon. Meanwhile, Hugo "Hurley" Reyes (Jorge Garcia) and Miles Straume (Ken Leung) debate the nature of time travel. Hurley is convinced that they have changed the past, as in Back to the Future, but Miles tells him that these events always happened in the past. Hurley, however, points that an older Ben didn't recognize Sayid when he was tortured in 2004, as the man who shot him as a kid. Jack, knowing what Ben does in the future, refuses to help, saying that "he already saved him once". This drives Kate Austen (Evangeline Lilly) to do everything she can to help Ben.
Kate goes to the sick bay where Ben is being treated and donates her blood because she is a universal donor. She strikes up a conversation with Ben's father, Roger (Jon Gries), who is upset that Ben stole his keys and freed Sayid from the jail. Once it becomes clear that Ben will succumb to his injuries without further intervention, Kate decides to take Ben to the Others, the island's native population. Sawyer comes to Kate's aid and they bring Ben to Richard Alpert (Nestor Carbonell), who warns them that if he treats Ben, he will not remember what has happened and will never be the same again. They agree anyway. Another Other urges Richard to inform "Ellie" of his intentions and implies that "Charles" will not be pleased if he finds out, but Richard says he doesn't answer to either of them. Richard then carries Ben into the temple.

2007
After being knocked out unconscious by Sun, Ben (Michael Emerson) wakes up in the infirmary, and is greeted by John Locke (Terry O'Quinn), who welcomes him back to "the land of the living".

Notes
Passage 2:
SNICK
SNICK (short for Saturday Night Nickelodeon) was a two-hour programming block on the American cable television network Nickelodeon, geared toward older (preteen to teen) audiences, that ran from August 15, 1992 until January 29, 2005. It was aired on Saturdays starting at 8 p.m and ending at 10 p.m. ET. In 2005, SNICK was revamped as the Saturday night edition of TEENick. Nickelodeon continues to run a Saturday night programming block today, though since the TEENick name was removed from the lineup in February 2009, the block no longer goes by any name.
The block debuted on Saturday, August 15, 1992, with a pair of Sunday favorites (the teen sitcom Clarissa Explains It All and The Ren & Stimpy Show) and the network premieres of Roundhouse (a musical comedy variety series) and Are You Afraid of the Dark? (a horror fantasy-drama anthology series).

Background
At the time of SNICK's creation, traditional networks such as ABC, NBC and CBS didn't like to program for younger viewers on Saturday nights. The consensus at the time was that viewers who were 50 years of age and older, were the only ones available, since younger viewers traditionally went out on Saturday nights. This would explain why shows such as NBC's The Golden Girls and Empty Nest were the most predominant shows on Saturday nights at the time. Previously on Saturdays, Nickelodeon themselves ceded the 8 p.m. timeslot to the vintage sitcoms of the channel's late night programming block, Nick at Nite.Then-Nickelodeon president Geraldine Laybourne wanted to expose the myth that there is no audience for kids and teen programming on Saturday nights. Laybourne on that end, was a purveyor of market niche-talk, which was a strategy of programming highly focused programs targeted to specific groups defined by age, gender, race, education, religion or any of a number of other factors. In theory, the audience who would most likely watch SNICK would be too young to be out on the town and subsequently too old to be in bed by eight.Laybourne believed that the original shows on the SNICK block would double Nickelodeon's audience on Saturday night by as many as 650,000 to one million viewers. According to Nickelodeon, about one-third of The Ren & Stimpy Show's audience, more than a million viewers, were between the ages of 18 and 35. By early 1993, Nickelodeon according to A.C. Nielsen ratings, was the number one network among viewers ages 6–11 on Saturday nights. With a 6.4 age-group rating, Nickelodeon beat Fox's 5.5, NBC's 5.2, CBS' 4.8, and ABC's 3.2

History
1999–2001: SNICK House
On October 16, 1999, SNICK was revamped and was renamed to the SNICK House. With this came a number of changes. The block was now hosted by Nick Cannon, and each week, a celebrity or music group made an appearance. The format was very similar to the former TEENick block, but was more of a party. Each week, kids could go online and vote for their favorite SNICK House Video Picks. The winning music video would then be played during the block. The SNICK House was cancelled on October 1, 2000, making the way for the return of the regular SNICK block.

2001–2002: Elevator Music Era
After SNICK was cancelled on June 30, 2001, with the last program aired being All That, Nick replaced SNICK's normal slot with "Nick Flicks", 90 minute Nicktoon specials followed by The Brothers García. This went on from July 7, 2001 to January 12, 2002 and from June 29, 2002 to September 7, 2002. On January 19, 2002, the brand new SNICK began with a whole new lineup, including a brand new season and subsequently a new cast of All That, which had been on hiatus for a year and a half. Bumpers now featured still pictures of various SNICK stars with a SNICK "talk bubble" above them, with elevator music playing in the background.

2002–2004: SNICK On-Air Dare
Starting in September 2002, SNICK featured a series of On-Air Dare segments featuring members of the All That cast. All but three members of the cast would pull a lever to determine the night's "dare", which one of the three would have to do. The three cast members from All That in each segment would be placed in a glass cylinder and one would be randomly chosen to participate in a dare. If chosen, two security guards enter and grab the cast member (as if he or she was arrested) so they don't escape. This appears to have been based on Fear Factor.Some of these dares included singing the National Anthem in a diaper, apple bobbing in a toilet, taking a bath in a tub of raw eggs, eating a couple gallons of blue cheese, being painted with peanut butter and licked by dogs, hanging upside down and being dipped in dog food, having buckets of worms dumped on the cast member's head, drinking a gallon of sweat, sitting in a giant bowl of chili, eating 1,000 toe nails, the cast member putting an entire scorpion in their mouth, the cast member being pecked by hungry chickens, or shaving their school principal's legs.
During this era of SNICK, the SNICK line-ups went through some major transitions that included the phasing out of The Nick Cannon Show and Cousin Skeeter and the addition of a new show, Romeo!.
In 2003, design company Beehive created brand new bumpers for SNICK, featuring an orange splat morphing into a show's character. Instead of saying "SNICK", the announcer said "Saturday Night Nickelodeon".

2004–2005: Saturday Night on Nickelodeon era and the end of SNICK
On September 4, 2004, SNICK was quietly rebranded as Saturday Night on Nickelodeon. However, the SNICK name was still used during live on-air segments. TEENick Saturday Night replaced SNICK for the 2004–2005 television season and onward. The TEENick block name was dropped in February 2009 in preparation for the launch of a separate channel named after the block, TeenNick. TeenNick launched in September 2009 and much of its programming was sourced from the original TEENick block.

2011: SNICK on The '90s Are All That
In 2011, TeenNick would begin airing 1990s era Nickelodeon shows starting at 12:00 AM Eastern Time under the banner The '90s Are All That. All That and Kenan & Kel are the most prominent and consistent SNICK shows to get reruns. It was announced that the week of December 26, 2011 up until New Year's Eve that TeenNick would air classic SNICK lineups from each year of the 1990s, with a special marathon airing New Year's Eve, all with classic SNICK and Nickelodeon bumpers from the 1990s.
On August 17, 2013, SNICK returned to The '90s Are All That, for its "SNICK-iversary", celebrating its 21st anniversary, reaching drinking age if it were a person. The original lineup was aired (Clarissa Explains It All, The Ren & Stimpy Show and Are You Afraid of the Dark?) with the exception of Roundhouse being replaced by All That.

2017: SNICK on NickSplat
Since the block's 2011 resurgence, SNICK has returned to TeenNick three times. The first two under the block timeslot of The '90s Are All That, which was renamed to The Splat on October 5, 2015, and was renamed once again as NickSplat on May 1, 2017. SNICK's third appearance on TeenNick was to celebrate SNICK's 25th anniversary by airing episodes Saturday nights during the month of August 2017.
August 5, 2017:

12AM The Adventures of Pete and Pete
12:30AM Clarissa Explains It All
1AM Are You Afraid of the Dark?
1:30AM The Ren & Stimpy ShowAugust 12, 2017:

12AM All That
12:30AM All That
1AM Kenan & Kel
1:30AM Kenan & KelAugust 15, 2017:

10PM Clarissa Explains It All
10:30PM Roundhouse
11PM The Ren & Stimpy Show
11:30PM Are You Afraid of the Dark?August 19, 2017:

12AM KaBlam!
12:30AM Rugrats
1AM CatDog
1:30AM The Angry BeaversAugust 26, 2017:

12AM The Amanda Show
12:30AM The Amanda Show
1AM All That
1:30AM All That

Ads and bumpers
Ads and bumpers for SNICK featured the programming block's "mascot," dubbed "The Big Orange Couch," in several locales, including in front of the Midnight Society's campfire, Ren and Stimpy's house, the Roundhouse, as well as various real life and fictional locations. It was retired in June 1999 (however the couch was briefly returned from 2000–2001, in which it was redesigned), when the iconic couch, stuffed with $25,000 and 6,000 cookies, was given away in a contest celebrating Nickelodeon's 20 years on television. In 2006, one of Nickelodeon's celebrities would take over Nickelodeon from Monday to Friday, sitting on the Big Orange Couch.

SNICK line-ups
The following are the shows aired during SNICK for the year listed. Although these are the standard shows aired, some days would see variation in the SNICK line-up.

Home video releases
In August 1993, Nickelodeon released two VHS video tapes meant to recreate the SNICK-watching experience by including episodes from all four of the original SNICK shows: Clarissa Explains It All, Roundhouse, The Ren & Stimpy Show, and Are You Afraid of the Dark?. The tapes also included episodes of the original The Adventures of Pete & Pete shorts in between each SNICK show. as well as SNICK bumpers featuring the Big Orange Couch. The videos were released through Sony Wonder and came in orange-colored cassette tapes.

Volume 1: Nick SNICKS Friendship
Clarissa Explains It All: Season 3 episode "Sam's Swan Song"
The Ren & Stimpy Show: Season 1 episode "The Littlest Giant"
Are You Afraid of the Dark: Season 1 episode "The Tale of the Lonely Ghost"
Roundhouse: Season 1 episode "New Kid In Town"
The Adventures of Pete & Pete shorts "Artie, the Strongest Man in the World," "X-Ray Man," and "Route 34"

Volume 2: Nick SNICKS The Family
Clarissa Explains It All: Season 1 episode "Cool Dad"
The Ren & Stimpy Show: Season 2 episode "Fake Dad"
Are You Afraid of the Dark: Season 1 episode "The Tale of the Hungry Hounds"
Roundhouse: Season 1 episode "You Can't Fire Your Family"
The Adventures of Pete & Pete shorts "The Burping Room," "Mom's Plate," and "The Punishment"

Notes
Passage 3:
CBS Block Party
CBS Block Party (referred to on-air as the CBS Friday Night Block Party) was a programming block that aired on the CBS television network during the 1997–1998 television season. The block was similar to, and was intended as direct competition to, ABC's TGIF lineup and aired on Friday nights from 8:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. ET, and included two former stalwarts of the TGIF lineup. Although the block was canceled after one year, the resulting audience fracture caused what turned out to be irreparable harm to the previously dominant TGIF, eventually clearing the way for CBS to dominate the Friday night lineup beginning in the next decade.

Background
When ABC (a network that was in the midst of an overhaul as The Walt Disney Company took over) canceled the long-running shows Family Matters and Step by Step, CBS picked them up, paying a $40 million sum to earn the rights to the shows, and made them the cornerstones of the new "Block Party." Two new family comedies were added. The first was a new production from Miller-Boyett Productions (the production company behind Family Matters and Step By Step among other TGIF series), Meego. Meego, in addition to being produced by TGIF alumni, also starred a TGIF alumnus: Bronson Pinchot, who previously starred as Balki Bartokomous in Perfect Strangers and as Jean-Luc Rieupeyroux in the sixth season of Step by Step (Pinchot even used a similar accent to the one he used for the Balki character); Meego also featured well-known contemporary child stars Michelle Trachtenberg and Jonathan Lipnicki. The second new series was The Gregory Hines Show, an eponymous sitcom featuring entertainer Gregory Hines; CBS head Leslie Moonves described the Hines show as being more mature and edgy than the other shows in the block, but still family-friendly enough that children could watch comfortably.Jaleel White, who played Family Matters star character Steve Urkel, stated that the producers jumped at the opportunity to jump to CBS because ABC was already shifting the TGIF block toward a much more child- and teen-oriented image, moving away from the whole-family approach it had taken at the beginning of its run (White believed being paired with the likes of The Gregory Hines Show was a far better fit than shows such as Muppets Tonight and Aliens in the Family that had been appearing on TGIF at the time), and that they did not believe Disney would give Miller-Boyett as prominent of a role as they had held with ABC before Disney had bought it. CBS, still experiencing aftereffects from the loss of NFL rights and multiple key affiliates to Fox in 1994, saw the purchase as a golden opportunity to draw a younger demographic than it was drawing at the time.The CBS Block Party was CBS's second and final attempt to compete with TGIF; in 1992, the network attempted a similar block, albeit targeting an older demographic than either TGIF or the Block Party, that featured The Golden Palace (the continuation of the long-running NBC sitcom The Golden Girls), Designing Women, Major Dad, and Bob. Like the Block Party, this block also failed after one season, and by the end of 1993, all four series had been canceled.

Lineup
8:00pm Family Matters
8:30pm Meego
Replaced midseason with Kids Say the Darndest Things
9:00pm The Gregory Hines Show
9:30pm Step by Step(all times U.S. Eastern Time)

Aftermath
None of the shows in the initial lineup lasted beyond that season. Meego lasted a mere six weeks, and The Gregory Hines Show was gone after fourteen. Though the two ABC series were picked up for full seasons, they suffered badly from the network jump, with both series hitting all-time lows in the Nielsen ratings (Family Matters was nevertheless modestly successful enough to beat the show that replaced it in the TGIF lineup, You Wish; the success was short-lived when You Wish was canceled). Family Matters also suffered due to extensive retooling: Steve Urkel was revamped to tone down his nerdiness, several characters were written out or reduced to guest appearances, and Jo Marie Payton left the show midseason after getting into an altercation with White that nearly turned into fisticuffs (her role as Harriette Winslow was recast with Judyann Elder playing her the rest of the season).
When the series were canceled, none were afforded a series finale. Kids Say the Darndest Things, however, would continue for two additional seasons, usually paired on Friday nights with a revival of Candid Camera. Kids Say... and Candid Camera would have more sustained success against TGIF, which eventually declined over the next two years until it ended in 2000.CBS has mostly focused on dramatic programming in the time slot since the Block Party was canceled, a programming strategy that has been a relative success in the so-called "Friday night death slot."
Passage 4:
Bob Ferris (Likely Lads)
Robert Andrew Scarborough Ferris is a fictional character in British sitcoms The Likely Lads and Whatever Happened to the Likely Lads? and in The Likely Lads film, played by Bingley-born actor Rodney Bewes. He is single in The Likely Lads, marries Thelma Chambers in Whatever Happened to the Likely Lads? and is still married to her in the film. He works as an electrician and later as a civil engineer. Bob is a long-term friend of Terry Collier.

Early life
Bob was conceived in Scarborough (hence his middle name) by unmarried parents, the day before his father was posted to Catterick by the British Army. Sharing his birthdate with entertainer Bruce Forsyth - as we learn in 'Birthday Boy' - Bob was born on 22 February 1944 into a working-class family. Once he started school, he proved to be an impressionable child, on his own being conscientious, but being easily coaxed into trouble by friends, particularly Terry. At an early age Bob and Terry got into mild trouble, stealing Dinky toys from Woolworths and a hosepipe from a care home. Bob left school to become an electrical apprentice with Ellison's Electrical. While serving his apprenticeship, he also attended night school, eventually becoming a qualified electrician. In the last episode of The Likely Lads, he signs up for the British Army but is discharged for having flat feet. Terry, who only signed up in order to be alongside his friend, is accepted, and goes on to serve in Munchen Gladbach, West Germany.

Personality
Bob is keener than Terry to mask his working-class roots. After marrying Thelma, Bob aspires to be accepted into the middle class, much to Terry's disgust. Bob enjoys playing squash with Thelma, but equally enjoys drinking with Terry. He often blames his drinking, smoking and poor diet on Terry. Although that is in part true, Bob needs little persuasion to stay out drinking with Terry rather than going home to his wife.
Bob is hard-working, conscientious, fairly conventional, and (unlike Terry) ambitious, although he is usually in need of guidance in order to achieve his ambitions. However, he is not particularly assertive, which makes him easily led by his headstrong wife Thelma and equally headstrong friend Terry.
Despite Bob's ambition and enjoyment of his new-found status, he has often defended Terry's "down-to-earth" and "unpretentious" ways, on one occasion even offending one of his own and Thelma's friends in order to defend Terry.
Passage 5:
Whatever Happened to... Robot Jones?
Whatever Happened to... Robot Jones? (simply known as Robot Jones or WHTRJ?) is an American animated television series created by Greg Miller for Cartoon Network. It follows Robot Jones, a teenage robot who attends the fictional suburban Polyneux Middle School in a retrofuturistic 1980s world. Episodes follow Robot Jones researching aspects of human life, including music, facial hair, and gym class. Jones is guided by his three friends, Socks, Mitch, and Cubey. Robot Jones is often smitten with his crush, Shannon Westerburg, a tall, young girl with orthodontic headgear and a prosthesis. In school, Robot Jones interacts with his teachers, Mr. McMcMc, Mr. Workout, and Mrs. Raincoat; the principal, Mr. Madman; and janitor Clancy Q. Sleepyjeans. His arch-rivals, Lenny and Denny Yogman, try to sabotage Jones's research by making school more difficult for him.
Miller's first pilot aired on Cartoon Network on June 16, 2000, as part of "Voice Your Choice Weekend", a contest in which previously unaired pilots were broadcast for viewers to decide which should be given a full series. Even though the Robot Jones pilot ranked second below Grim & Evil in the event, Robot Jones was greenlit for its own series, which premiered on July 19, 2002. The first season voice of Robot Jones was created with a Microsoft Word 97 text-to-speech function. Beginning with the second season, Robot Jones's voice was dubbed over by child actor Bobby Block, and reruns of the first season were re-dubbed with Block's voice overs. The series ended on November 14, 2003, after 13 episodes and a pilot.

Premise
Robot Jones (voiced by a text-to-speech program in the pilot and season 1; Bobby Block in season 2 and season 1 reruns) is a teenage robot living in a fictional early 1980s version of Delaware where robots are commonplace. Robot attempts to learn human nature by attending Polyneux Middle School with his new friends Timothy "Socks" Morton (Kyle Sullivan), a tall boy who loves rock music, Mitch Davis (Gary LeRoi Gray), a headphones-wearing boy whose eyes are hidden by his long hair, and Charles "Cubey" Cubinacle (Myles Jeffrey), a shorter boy who loves video games. He holds a crush on Shannon Westerburg (Grey DeLisle), a girl with a large retainer and prosthetic metal leg.
In each episode, Robot Jones explores a concept faced by average teenagers, such as gym class or competitions. Robot immerses himself in each subject to fully understand it while trying to fit in with his human peers, but this is challenging due to his social ineptitude and others' lack of understanding. As Robot settles in at school, he explores humanoid concepts of his own will. Though the situations he finds himself in are usually at his parents' insistence, others are a result of Robot trying to get closer to Shannon. An example is in "Summer Camp" when Socks convinces Robot to go camping and Robot discovers the ability to feel jealous. Due to his polite nature and short stature, students at his school tend to ignore Robot or are oblivious to his existence. His good grades, poor social skills, and status as a robot are at odds with Principal Madman (Jeff Bennett), a technophobic principal, Mr. McMcMc (Rip Taylor), a jealous and insecure math teacher, and Lenny (Josh Peck) and Denny (Austin Stout) Yogman, two genius twin brothers. At the end of an episode, Robot reads a "data log entry" about what he learned that day and what conclusions he has arrived at on humanity.
The opening sequence, in which Robot Jones is factory-assembled and inserted into a school bus, is an homage to that of 1980s children's show You Can't Do That on Television. When the title of the show is spoken, a group of young children voice the "Whatever Happened to..." part in unison while the "Robot Jones?" part is done by a Macintosh Macintalk voice known as Trinoids. The first season has children speaking out episode titles while season 2 episode titles are spoken by voices of the characters.

Production
Greg Miller's original series pilot aired on Cartoon Network on June 8, 2000, in a contest featuring 11 animated shorts to be chosen for a spot on the network's 2000 schedule. During the weekend of August 25–27, 2000, all 11 pilots aired as part of a 52-hour marathon called "Voice Your Choice Weekend", in which viewers would vote for their favorite pilots. While Grim & Evil won the contest with 57% of the vote, Robot Jones came in second place with 23% and was given its own series run beginning July 19, 2002.Robot Jones's animation style can be seen as a throwback to 1970s and 1980s cartoons such as Schoolhouse Rock!, with an intentionally messy and rough look; it also strongly resembles classic newspaper comic strips such as Calvin and Hobbes. The series' animation technique is different from most American cartoons from the early 2000s. It was animated with traditional cel animation, at a time when many American cartoons had switched to digital ink and paint. The show was animated at Rough Draft Studios in Seoul, South Korea.
Greg Miller stated in an interview on Facebook that he used a Microsoft Word 97 text-to-speech software on his old Macintosh computer for Robot's voice during production for season one, but after the first season was completed, the executives of Cartoon Network didn't like how it sounded. Bobby Block was chosen to take the role of Robot in season two. Robot Jones's text-to-speech voice was also recorded for production of the second season, but because the voice change happened during the production of those episodes, this voice was never dubbed into the final prints. In that interview, he also said that he would want to do a revival of Robot Jones, but it would be up to Cartoon Network.
The aforementioned interview also revealed that the show was originally planned to be about Robot Jones growing up in the style of The Wonder Years only to take over the world in the style of The Terminator, and when asked how the show would have ended, Greg Miller explained it would end in the show's version of the 1990s with Robot Jones rallying a robot army to attack the human race.

Episodes
Series overview
Pilot (2000)
Season 1 (2002)
Season 2 (2003)
Broadcast
After production ceased on Robot Jones, it aired in syndication before being removed from Cartoon Network's schedule, but episodes were available online on Cartoon Network Video for a short period.
From 2005 to 2006, Robot Jones reran sporadically on The Cartoon Cartoon Show, along with segments of other Cartoon Cartoons from that time period.
Reruns began airing on Cartoon Network's Latin-American sister network Tooncast in 2015. It has also been added to the local version of HBO Max in 2022.
Robot Jones made a cameo appearance on the OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes episode "Crossover Nexus" that aired October 8, 2018, along with other Cartoon Network characters from current and ended shows. This marks the first appearance of Robot Jones's character since the show's cancellation and the first time since the first season where the character's voice was provided by the Microsoft Word 97 text-to-speech programmed voice.

See also
List of fictional robots and androids
List of science fiction universes
Passage 6:
Whatever Happened to ...?
Whatever Happened to ..? is a series of eleven plays broadcast in two series on BBC Radio 4 in 1994 and 1995. They covered the fate of various fictional characters, such as Popeye and Susan Foreman, the granddaughter of the Doctor in Doctor Who. The writer was Adrian Mourby, who in 1997 published a book called Whatever Happened to ...?: The Ultimate Sequels Book, in a similar vein with the further adventures of Frankenstein's Monster, The Artful Dodger, Snow White, Romeo, Big Bad Wolf, Pinocchio, Man Friday, Jane Eyre, Dorothy Gale from The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, and Jim Hawkins.

Episodes
Series one
Series two
Commercial releases
Whatever Happened to Susan Foreman? has been released as an extra on the Doctor Who DVD The Dalek Invasion of Earth.
The Radio 4 series starred Sir Michael Hordern, Jane Asher (as Susan), Lesley Philips (as the Big Bad Wolf), Roshan Seth (as Mowgli) Warren Mitchell and James Grout. The first series won Adrian Mourby the Sony Silver Award for Creative Writing on Radio.

External links
Whatever Happened to ...? at BBC Online
Episode listing on epguides.com
Review of the Susan Foreman episode at pagefillers.com
Passage 7:
Whatever Happened to Old-Fashioned Love
"Whatever Happened to Old-Fashioned Love" is a song recorded by American country music artist B. J. Thomas. It was released in May 1983 as the first single from the album New Looks. The song was written by Lewis Anderson.
The song was his biggest hit in over five years. "Whatever Happened to Old-Fashioned Love" was the second of three number ones on the country chart. It was his first number one since "(Hey Won't You Play) Another Somebody Done Somebody Wrong Song" eight years before. The single stayed at number one for one week and spent a total of fourteen weeks on the country chart. The song was Thomas' final entry on the pop chart, reaching number 93.
The song was a Top 20 pop hit in the UK for Daniel O'Donnell in the 1990s.

Charts
Weekly charts
Year-end charts
Passage 8:
Richard J. Maybury
Richard J. Maybury (born October 10, 1946) is the publisher of U.S. & World Early Warning Report for Investors.  He has written several entry level books on United States economics, law, and history from a libertarian perspective. He has written these things in epistolatory form, usually as an uncle writing to his nephew, answering questions. Maybury was a high school economics teacher. After failing to find a book which would give a clear explanation on his view of economics he wrote one himself. Some of his books include Uncle Eric Talks About Personal, Career & Financial Security; a book that is basically the foundation for his other books about the model perspective and Higher Law, Whatever Happened to Penny Candy?; a book that explains the history of the [United States] economic model and how it was based on free-market Austrian economics, Whatever Happened to Justice?; a book about his juris naturalist philosophical viewpoints regarding the foundations of America's legal system, British Common Law, the law of the Franks, and early Christian Ireland.

Early life and family
Richard J. Maybury was born on October 10, 1946 in Hamilton, Ohio, to parents Anthony J., and executive of a West Coast coffee company and co-author of Common Sense Business for Kids, and Ruth M. (née Wellinghoff) Maybury. He married Marilyn N. Williams on August 7, 1967.  He has 4 siblings: David, Linda, Jane, and Debra.

Theories
Juris Naturalism
Maybury's viewpoint is "juris naturalism". Maybury created the term juris naturalism, and called himself a juris naturalist, because he believed no other label was able to fully describe the concept, which he believed is modeled on the viewpoints of many of America's Founders.

Thousand Year War
Maybury has had disagreements with those who say that Muslims are terrorists. In his book, The Thousand Year War, he says that Muslims have been persecuted as much as the Jews by Western civilization through events such as the Crusades, and that they are retaliating after being wronged by the Europeans and the western culture, including the United States government. Maybury states that Muslim nations and people still treat events that occurred centuries ago as modern-day events, and that the recent attacks are retaliatory strikes against what they perceive to be their long-time enemies. He praises the mediaeval Muslim civilizations for their advances in many fields. He also states that Muslims are responsible for preserving the philosophies of ancient people, such as Aristotle.

Maybury's Two Laws
Maybury bases his work on common law, namely

Do all you have agreed to do
Do not encroach on other persons or their property.The first law is related to contract law.  A contract is an agreement between two or more parties, in which they promise to perform certain actions for and recognize certain rights of the other parties.  The second law is related to some criminal law and tort law.  Violators of these types of laws have committed acts like theft or violence against other people. (When referencing these two laws, Maybury has at times requested they be known as "Maybury's Laws," and stated exactly as above.) He has also mentioned that there may be another (or others) undiscovered law related to the subjects of law that the two he shows don't cover.

Chaostan
Maybury has declared that nearly a third of the Earth's surface is Chaostan, the land of great chaos. Chaostan is in his view prone to war, financial ill, and tyranny because they never received the Two Laws. The area extends from the Arctic Ocean to the Indian Ocean and Poland to the Pacific, plus North Africa.

The New Axis
Maybury thinks it is possible that some or all of the areas in Chaostan are secretly co-operating, either through political alliance or along ancient ethnic lines. This term was first used in May 1996.

Military Experience
Maybury was a sergeant in the United States Air Force from 1967 to 1971. He served with the 605th Air Commando Squadron in Central America, and with the 75th Military Airlift Squadron in Vietnam. He was also a General Military Training instructor at Travis Air Force Base; and participated in covert operations in South and Central America.

Books
Themes
Maybury's books are marked with emphasis on paradigms, or "models" as he calls them. One of his books, Are You Liberal, Conservative, or Confused is dedicated entirely to this topic. He commonly addresses his letters to an imaginary student named Chris.

Style
All of his books are written in the epistolatory style, as letters from the fictitious Uncle Eric to his nephew. The personal tone of the "letters" convey a certain sense of urgency, yet are remarkably understated compared to other revisionist and contrarian viewpoints.
The books have many illustrations, maps and pull-quotations of historical persons.  Though, oddly to some, he rarely if ever quotes recent (20th century) writers.  Perhaps it is because he distills the essence of free-market economic thought (what we often call "Libertarian") into fundamental terms that stand on their own.  In other words, rather than quoting for instance Henry Hazlitt to support a thesis, he describes an idea in foundational terms that arrive at a conclusion that readers of Hazlitt may find familiar.

Titles
Maybury's in-print books to date are:

Ancient Rome: How It Affects You Today
Are You Liberal? Conservative? or Confused?
Evaluating Books: What Would Thomas Jefferson Think About This?
The Clipper Ship Strategy: For Success in Your Career, Business, and Investments
The Money Mystery: The Hidden Force Affecting Your Career, Business, and Investments
The Thousand Year War in the Mideast
Uncle Eric Talks About Personal, Career, and Financial Security
Whatever Happened to Justice?
Whatever Happened to Penny Candy? 5th Edition
World War I: The Rest of the Story and How It Affects You Today
World War II: The Rest of the Story & How It Affects You TodayAll of his books are published by Bluestocking Press

Journals & Newspapers
EWR
The US & World Investors Early Warning Report (EWR) is Maybury's monthly financial newsletter. EWR seeks to apply the Uncle Eric model to the real world and provide forecasts and warnings of financial changes before they happen. It is very cautious in outlook, and has low toleration of risk.

Freelance Work
Following his military experience, but prior to EWR, Maybury was a freelance writer whose works were featured in the Wall Street Journal, Washington Times, USA Today and other notable publications.

Moneyworld
Maybury was previously global affairs editor for Moneyworld
Passage 9:
The New CBS Tuesday Night Movies
The New CBS Tuesday Night Movies (known as The New CBS Friday Night Movies in its first season) was a weekly 90-minute motion picture made expressly for television.  The series aired on CBS from 1971 to 1974. During its first two seasons, the program was similar to ABC's Movie of the Week, which presented a brand-new full-length feature film in a regular weekly time slot with no connecting theme or arc among the films.  In the fall of 1972, the series moved from Friday nights to Tuesdays, with its Friday night slot given back to traditional previously released theatrical films under The CBS Friday Night Movies banner (The New CBS Friday Night Movies replaced The CBS Friday Night Movies during its first season).
During the 1973-1974 television season, CBS revised the series into The New CBS Tuesday Night Movies.  In the revision CBS adopted both the ABC and NBC approaches.  They developed two rotating series, similar to The NBC Mystery Movie (both produced by MGM Television), and continued to premiere brand new feature-length films as television movies seen on alternating weeks.
The two series-like projects were:

Shaft, a series television version of the 1970s blaxploitation film franchise (itself based on Ernest Tidyman's 1970 novel of the same name), starring Richard Roundtree reprising the role of John Shaft.
Hawkins, starred James Stewart as Billy Jim Hawkins, a rural lawyer who investigated the cases he was involved in, not unlike Stewart's role in the 1959 film Anatomy of a Murder.
Every third week was a television movie.The New CBS Tuesday Night Movies was cancelled after the 1973-1974 television season. Television films seen on CBS would be incorporated into its Thursday and Friday night movie programs, beginning with the 1974-1975 season.
Passage 10:
Cartoon Cartoons
Cartoon Cartoons is a collective name used by Cartoon Network for their original animated television series originally aired between 1995 and 2003 and produced in majority by Hanna-Barbera and/or Cartoon Network Studios. Beginning with its inception into cable broadcasting on October 1, 1992, Cartoon Network had focused its programming on reruns of older animated series which it had acquired through its parent company's film library. The Cartoon Cartoons label originated with Fred Seibert's animation anthology series What a Cartoon!, an animation showcase series featuring pilots of original cartoon ideas submitted by independent animators. Dexter's Laboratory was the first such pilot to be greenlit by the network for a full series in 1996. After other pilots were successfully produced into their own series, including Cow and Chicken, Johnny Bravo, and The Powerpuff Girls, the collective Cartoon Cartoons were featured on the network's Friday night programming block, Cartoon Cartoon Fridays from 1999 to 2003. Not all CN original series created around this time were officially recognized as Cartoon Cartoons; Samurai Jack, for example, did not bear the moniker.
The moniker was retired by the network in 2004, and its last surviving series, Ed, Edd n Eddy, ended in 2009 after a ten-year run. Since their heyday, reruns of the Cartoon Cartoons continued to air on The Cartoon Cartoon Show (2005–2008) and Cartoon Planet (2012–2014). In 2021, the name was resurrected by the network for a new shorts program.

History
Cartoon Cartoons first appeared as shorts on animation showcase series What a Cartoon! in 1995, under the name of World Premiere Toons. The series was produced by Hanna-Barbera and Cartoon Network Studios under the direction of Fred Seibert. Seibert had been a guiding force for Nickelodeon (having overseen the creation of Nicktoons shortly prior to his departure) prior to joining Hanna-Barbera and would establish Frederator Studios years later.Through What a Cartoon!, Cartoon Network was able to assess the potential of certain shorts to serve as pilots for spin-off series and signed contracts with their creators to create ongoing series. Dexter's Laboratory was the most popular short series according to a vote held in 1995, and became a full series in 1996. Dexter was retroactively labeled the first Cartoon Cartoon in 1997; however, the network's previous original shows, The Moxy Show and Space Ghost Coast to Coast, were not retroactively given the label.
The Cartoon Cartoon brand was first introduced in July 1997 for the network's Cartoon Cartoon Weekend block. Three more series based on shorts debuted in 1997: Johnny Bravo, Cow and Chicken, and I Am Weasel (the latter two as segments of the same show; I Am Weasel was later spun off into a separate show). These were followed by The Powerpuff Girls in 1998 and Ed, Edd n Eddy in 1999, and Mike, Lu & Og and Courage the Cowardly Dog in 1999, creating a lineup of critically acclaimed shows. From 1999 to 2003, the Cartoon Cartoon Fridays block was the network's marquee night for premieres of new episodes and series.
In 2001, the network received Time Squad and Grim & Evil. Also in 2001, the show Samurai Jack premiered, but was not officially branded as a Cartoon Cartoon despite airing during the various programming blocks. In 2002, Codename: Kids Next Door became a full series after being chosen in the previous year's Big Pick Weekend. In 2003, Grim & Evil was split into The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy and Evil Con Carne; they were the last original series to officially carry the Cartoon Cartoon branding before it was discontinued.
The Cartoon Cartoons were intended to appeal to a wider audience than the average Saturday-morning cartoon. Linda Simensky, vice president of original animation, reminded adults and teenage girls that the cartoons could appeal to them as well. Kevin Sandler's article on them claimed that these cartoons were both less "bawdy" than their counterparts at Comedy Central and less "socially responsible" than their counterparts at Nickelodeon. Sandler pointed to the whimsical rebelliousness, high rate of exaggeration and self-consciousness of the overall output which each individual series managed.In October 2003, the live-action Fridays premiered on the network as a replacement for Cartoon Cartoon Fridays. The Cartoon Cartoons bumpers (that appeared before and after episodes of its original series) were dropped after the network's CN City rebrand in June 2004. In August 2004, the block Cartoon Cartoons: The Top 5 was renamed to simply The Top 5. CN still kept the Cartoon Cartoons name around in various forms applying to their older series (such as for The Cartoon Cartoon Show from 2005 to 2008), but since newer shows such as Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends, Camp Lazlo, and Ben 10 were stylistically different from previous shows, the moniker was not applied to them.
However, internationally in places like Asia and Latin America, the moniker continued on until 2007 with shows like Foster's Home, Hi Hi Puffy AmiYumi, Camp Lazlo, and My Gym Partner's a Monkey.

Revival
On April 15, 2021, Cartoon Network announced a new iteration of the Cartoon Cartoons shorts program. On November 24, 2021, the first new Cartoon Cartoons shorts completed production. The first nine shorts include Accordions Geoffery & Mary Melodica by Louie Zong (of The Ghost and Molly McGee and We Bare Bears), Dang! It's Dracula by Levon Jihanian (of Tig n' Seek), Hungy Ghost by Jesse Moynihan (of Adventure Time), Fruit Stand at the End of the World by Rachel Liu, Off the Menu by Shavonne Cherry (of Ren & Stimpy and The Looney Tunes Show), Harmony in Despair by Andrew Dickman (of Looney Tunes Cartoons), Unravel by Alexis Sugden, Mouthwash Madness by Lisa Vandenberg (of Animaniacs), and Scaredy Cat by JJ Villard (of King Star King). On June 7, 2022, More Cartoon Cartoons completed production. The next seven shorts include The All-Nimal by Nick Edwards (of Apple and Onion and The Fungies), Buttons' Gamezone by Fernando Puig (of The Cuphead Show and Tig n' Seek), Tib Tub, We Need You by Sean Godsey and Mike Rosenthal, I Love You Jocelyn by Tracey Laguerre (Art and Animation Director for brands like Google, Dreamworks, Buzzfeed and more) , Pig in a Wig by Sam Marin (of Regular Show), The Good Boy Report (based on the webcomic of the same name) by Kasey Williams (of Niko and the Sword of Light and Harley Quinn) and Maude Macher and Dom Duck by Kali Fontecchio (of The Looney Tunes Show and Jellystone!).

Programming blocks
More shows premiered bearing the Cartoon Cartoons brand, airing throughout the network's schedule and prominently on Cartoon Cartoon Fridays, which became the marquee night for premieres of new episodes and shows beginning June 11, 1999. On June 9, 2000, the Cartoon Cartoon Fridays block began to be hosted each week by a different character from a Cartoon Cartoon series, with the first host being Eustace from Courage the Cowardly Dog. The June 9 broadcast also began the first week of The Big Pick, a showcase of cartoon pilots that could become full series based on the results of an online viewer poll. A similar event, The Big Pick II, aired the following year. On October 3, 2003, following a months-long switch to Summer Fridays and Fridays, the block was rebooted under a hybrid live-action format as Fridays, hosted by Tommy Snider and Nzinga Blake, the latter of whom was later replaced by Tara Sands. It aired shows outside the Cartoon Cartoon moniker, such as Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends, Hi Hi Puffy AmiYumi, The Life and Times of Juniper Lee, Camp Lazlo, My Gym Partner's a Monkey, Squirrel Boy, and Class of 3000. The last airing of Fridays was on February 23, 2007.
Cartoon Cartoons: The Top 5 (simply retitled The Top 5 in 2004), an hour-long program featuring a countdown of the week's five "best" Cartoon Cartoon episodes from the network's lineup, ran from 2002 to 2008. From 2005 to 2008, the Cartoon Cartoons label was primarily used for The Cartoon Cartoon Show, a half-hour program featuring episodes of older Cartoon Cartoons that were no longer shown regularly on the network.
The block Cartoon Planet was revived on Cartoon Network from 2012 to 2014, airing in a format similar to The Cartoon Cartoon Show. It featured Cartoon Cartoons such as Dexter's Laboratory, Johnny Bravo, Cow and Chicken, I Am Weasel, The Powerpuff Girls, Courage the Cowardly Dog, Ed, Edd n Eddy, Codename: Kids Next Door, The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy, and other original Cartoon Network Studios series such as Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends, Camp Lazlo, and Chowder.

List of series
Precursor
Full series
(+) Indicates that the show originally aired as part of Grim & Evil, and that the 2003-2004 episodes were not produced for the standalone show.

In other media
DC Comics ran an anthology comic based on the Cartoon Cartoons; the series ran from March 2001 to October 2004 for a total of 33 issues.
In the OK K.O.! Let's Be Heroes episode "Crossover Nexus", the Cartoon Cartoon logo is shown in the bottom of a wall inside the Cartoon Network headquarters; the Cartoon Cartoon jingle theme song is played when Ben Tennyson (Ben 10) shape-shifts into different Cartoon Network characters.

See also
List of programs broadcast by Cartoon Network
Nicktoons

Notes