Passage 1:
Louisville Thunder
Louisville Thunder was an indoor soccer club based in Louisville, Kentucky that was one of the founding clubs competing in the American Indoor Soccer Association. Peter Mahlock served as President and General Manager and Keith Tozer was the head coach.  During the first season Tozer moved from just coaching to logging shifts as a player/coach.  In their debut season of 1984–1985, goalkeeper Rick Schweizer won the 'Goalkeeper of the Year' award, and made it on to the All-Star team.  The Louisville Thunder played its home games at the Broadbent Arena.
However, in 1987 after winning the AISA league championship over the Canton Invaders, the team disbanded due to ownership problems.
The team did produce several league all-stars during its existence including Rick Schweizer, Zoran Savic, Art Hughes and Chris Hellenkamp.

Coaches
Keith Tozer (1984–87)

Individual player honors
1984–1985 Rick Schweizer – Goalkeeper of the Year
1984–1985 All-Star TEAM Rick Schweizer & Art Hughes
1985–1986 Zoran Savic – Top Points Scorer (81)
1985–1986 All-Star TEAM Zoran Savic & Art Hughes
1986–1987 All-Star TEAM Zoran Savic, Art Hughes &  Chris Hellenkamp

Year-by-year
See also
Sports in Louisville, Kentucky
Passage 2:
Louisville Icehawks
The Louisville Icehawks were a professional ice hockey team competing in the East Coast Hockey League. The team, based in Louisville, Kentucky, played from 1990 to 1994. Their home venue was Broadbent Arena at the Kentucky Exposition Center. The mascot was called Tommy Hawk, a play on tomahawk, and resembled The San Diego Chicken, but with coloration and costume matching the team's. Tommy Hawk was "banned" from the inside portion of the arena for a period of time, due to an altercation with a visiting player who was in the penalty box. In the 1995–96 season, the team was renamed and moved to Florida to become the Jacksonville Lizard Kings.
For a period of time the Louisville Icehawk's parent team/NHL Affiliate were the Pittsburgh Penguins.
Trevor Buchanan was a player for the Icehawks that spent a great deal of time in the penalty box, thus spawning his own fan club.

Playoffs
1990–91: Defeated Knoxville 3–0 in quarterfinals; lost to Greensboro 4–0 in semifinals.
1991–92: Defeated Toledo 4–1 in first round; received quarterfinals bye; defeated Cincinnati 3–1 in semifinals; lost to Hampton Roads 4–0 in finals.
1992–93: Did not qualify.
1993–94: Defeated Knoxville 2–1 in first round; lost to Birmingham 3–0 in quarterfinals.

See also
Sports in Louisville, Kentucky
Passage 3:
Kentucky Athletic Hall of Fame
The Kentucky Athletic Hall of Fame is a sports hall of fame for the U.S. state of Kentucky established in 1963. Individuals are inducted annually at a banquet in Louisville and receive a bronze plaque inside Louisville's Freedom Hall. The Kentucky Athletic Hall of Fame other wise known as the Kentucky Sports Hall of fame, is a non-profit organization funded by the Kentucky Lottery and owned and operated by the Louisville Sports Commission.

Notable Inductees
Honorees have included Louisville native Muhammad Ali. A three-time world champion and six-time Golden Glove recipient, he won a gold medal in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 Summer Olympics (at age eighteen) and turned professional later that year. Also included is American football player and coach Bo McMillin (who played for Centre College in Danville, Kentucky); and basketball player and coach Pat Riley, who played in college for the Kentucky Wildcats men's basketball team. While at the University of Kentucky, Riley managed to average a double double during his entire career there. He is also a ten-time NBA champion, winning one ring as a player with the Los Angeles Lakers and the rest as a coach and an owner in the NBA. Coach Riley was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 2005. Bob Baffert an American racehorse trainer who trained the 2015 Triple Crown winner American Pharoah and 2018 Triple Crown winner Justify. Baffert's horses have won a record seven Kentucky Derbies, seven Preakness Stakes, three Belmont Stakes, and three Kentucky Oaks. Most recently inducted. A more recent inductee Dwane Casey inducted in the 2021 class who is the head coach for the Detroit Pistons of the National Basketball Association. He is a former NCAA basketball player and coach, having played and coached there for over a decade before moving on to the NBA.The 2013 class included people such as Jerry Carroll who was a golf professional, Donna Bender a student-athlete/athletic director at Sacred Heart Academy, University of Louisville basketball player Pervis Ellison, Calvin Borel who was a Kentucky horse racer, Pro football player for the Pittsburgh Steelers Dwayne D. Woodruff, and Tennis player Julie Ditty.Inducted in the 2015 class were tennis player Mel Purcell,( he captured the 1980 NCAA doubles title with Rodney harmon and was named an all-American.) women's basketball coach Paul Sanderford, basketball player Sharon Garland, college basketball manager and King of the Bluegrass Men's Basketball Tournament founder and director Lloyd Gardner, Major League Baseball umpire Randy Marsh, track and field athlete Boyd Smith, and Lexington's Keeneland Race Course. Scott Davenport, the current men's basketball coach at Bellarmine University was also inducted.
The 2016 class included American football player Shaun Alexander, basketball player Darel Carrier, college basketball coach Scott Davenport, basketball player Kyra Elzy, high school basketball coach Philip Haywood, Kentucky Wesleyan basketball play-by-play announcer Joel Utley, and the Lakeside Swim Club. Kyra Elzy is a Kentucky native and currently holds the position as the University of Kentucky's Women's Basketball Head Coach. She also played basketball for the University of Tennessee and assisted for their team after her career.

Selection committee
The 2021 Selection Committee has the following members:
Jeff Bidwell, WPSD-TV
Drew Deener, ESPN Radio
Jody Demling, iHeart Media
Mike Fields, retired Lexington Herald Leader staff writer
Jason Frakes, Courier Journal
Kendrick Haskins, WAVE 3
Reina Kempt, Courier Journal
Zack Klemme, The Daily Independent
Mark Mathis, Owensboro Messenger-Inquirer
Marques Maybin, ESPN Radio
Brian Milam, WKYT-TV
Steve Moss, WKYT-TV
Kevin Patton, The Gleaner
Kent Spencer, WHAS-TV
Mark Story, Lexington Herald-Leader

Inductees
The Hall of fame has been honoring athletes for the past 58 years. These are some of the athletes inducted in the past 6 years. Here is the link to the full list of inductees.

2021
John Asher - Kentucky Derby ambassador. He is known as the voice and face of horseracing in Kentucky.
Dwane Casey - American Professional basketball coach who attended Union County High School in Morganfield, Kentucky and played four years at the University of Kentucky winning a National Championship in 1977-78. He began His coaching career at the Western Kentucky University before becoming the first African American assistant coach at The University of Kentucky, before moving to the NBA.
Romeo Crennel - American football coach. Before becoming a defensive coordinator, he was a star at Western Kentucky, where he was a four-year starter and a team captain as a senior in 1969. He then embarked on his coaching career that spanned six decades and included five Super Bowl rings as an assistant.
Rachel Komisarz Baugh - American swimmer, Olympic gold medalist, and former world record-holder. She swam at the University of Kentucky and became a seven-time All American swimmer and three-time SEC Champion by the end of her four years at the University.
Keith Madison - Head coach of the Kentucky Wildcats baseball team from 1979 to 2003. He remains the most winningest baseball coach in program history with 735 wins.
Elmore Smith - Former American professional basketball player. Played at Kentucky State University and went on to play in the NBA for the Buffalo Braves.

2020
Pete Browning - American professional baseball player that was a pioneer for the major league games, which included several seasons with the Louisville Colonels.
Anna May Hutchison- Louisville native, she played in the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League.
Clarence "Cave" Wilson- Basketball player. Wilson led the Horse Cave, KY, Colored School to 65 consecutive basketball victories in the 1940s. He was a forward and a point guard for the Harlem Globetrotters (1949-1964)

2019
Derek Anderson- American former professional basketball player. In 1996, Anderson helped the University of Kentucky win the NCAA Men's Basketball      Championship as part of a team that featured nine future NBA players under their coach Rick Pitino, known as the “untouchables”
Deion Branch- is a former American football player for the NFL. He played college football as a wide receiver at Louisville under coach John L. Smith. Branch was named the Most Valuable Player of Super Bowl XXXIX.
William Exum was the head of the Kentucky State University Physical Education Department and later head of the Athletics Department. He coached the KSU men's cross country team to an NCAA Division II championship in 1964. He was also the manager of the United States Track and Field teams at the 1972 and 1976 Olympics.
Ralph Hacker spent 34 years on the UK Radio Network. He served as the men's basketball analyst for many years with broadcaster Cawood Ledford
Willis Augustus Lee was a Kentucky native and a skilled sport shooter that won seven medals in the 1920 Olympics shooting events, including five gold medals. He was tied with teammate Lloyd Spooner for the most anyone had ever received in a single Olympics. Their record stood for 60 years.
Nate Northington- He was the first African-American to play in a college football SEC game with the Kentucky Wildcats.

2018
Bob Baffert
Sam Ball
Bob Beatty
Bernie Bickerstaff
Ken Ramsey
Nicky Hayden

2017
Mike Battaglia
Howard Beth
Rodger Bird
Rob Bromley
Swag Hartel
Kenny Klein
Dennis Lampley
Marion Miley

2016
Shaun Alexander
Darel Carrier
Scott Davenport
Kyra Elzy
Philip Haywood
Joel Utley
Lakeside Swim Club*Selection on hiatus 1965
**Selection on hiatus 1967-1974
**Selection on hiatus 1976-1984
Passage 4:
Freedom Hall
Freedom Hall is a multi-purpose arena in Louisville, Kentucky, on the grounds of the Kentucky Exposition Center, which is owned by the Commonwealth of Kentucky. It is best known for its use as a basketball arena, previously serving as the home of the University of Louisville Cardinals and, since November 2020, as the home of the Bellarmine University Knights. It has hosted Kiss, Chicago, AC/DC, WWE events, Mötley Crüe, Elvis Presley, The Doors, Janis Joplin, Creed, Led Zeppelin, Van Halen and many more. As well as the Louisville Cardinals men's basketball team from 1956 to 2010, the arena’s tenants included the Kentucky Colonels of the American Basketball Association from 1970 until the ABA-NBA merger in June 1976, and the Louisville Cardinals women's team from its inception in 1975 to 2010. The Kentucky Stickhorses of the North American Lacrosse League used Freedom Hall from 2011 until the team folded in 2013. From 2015 to 2019 it has hosted the VEX Robotics Competition World Championship Finals yearly in mid-April.
The arena lost its status as Kentuckiana's main indoor sporting and concert venue when the downtown KFC Yum! Center opened in 2010.  It is still used regularly, however, hosting concerts, horse shows, conventions, and basketball games.

History
Freedom Hall was completed in 1956 in the newly opened Kentucky Fair and Exposition Center located 5 miles (8.0 km) south of Downtown Louisville. It received its name as the result of a statewide essay contest sponsored by the State Fair Board and the American Legion. Charlotte Owens, a senior at DuPont Manual High School, submitted the winning entry over 6,500 others. Designed for the nation's premier equestrian competition, the Kentucky State Fair World's Championship Horse Show, the floor length and permanent seating were designed specifically for the almost 300-foot (91 m)-long show ring (in comparison, a regulation hockey rink is 200 feet (61 m) long, and a basketball court is only 94 feet). The North American International Livestock Exposition also is held there each November. Muhammad Ali fought his first professional fight at Freedom Hall when he won a six-round decision over Tunney Hunsaker. Freedom Hall was also one of the major stops on the Motortown (later MOTOWN) traveling music revue during the early and mid-1960s.
Grateful Dead played Freedom Hall 4 times including 6/18/74, 4/9/89, 6/15/93, and 6/16/93. 6/18/74 was officially released as Road Trips Volume 2 Number 3.
Judgment Day (2000) was also held at the Freedom Hall. A collegiate wrestling tournament was held at the arena in 2019.
Freedom Hall has hosted campaign rallies for two U.S. presidents: John F. Kennedy and Donald Trump.

Tenant history
The Kentucky Colonels fielded successful teams during their tenure at Freedom Hall, winning the American Basketball Association (ABA) Championship in the 1974–75 season and reaching the ABA Finals two other times. The 1970-71 team played in the ABA Championship Finals, losing to the Utah Stars in 7 games. The 1972-73 team advanced to the Finals again, losing to the Indiana Pacers in 7 games. The Colonels were disbanded when the ABA merged with the National Basketball Association in 1976. Hall of Fame players Dan Issel and Artis Gilmore played for the Colonels during their successful run. Hall of Fame Coach Hubie Brown coached the Colonels Championship team.In 1984 the facility was refurbished, including lowering the floor to allow maximum capacity to increase from 16,664 to 18,865 for basketball. It was the full-time home of Cardinal men's basketball from the 1957–58 season to 2010, with the team winning 82% of home games in 50+ seasons. The University of Louisville was ranked in the Top 5 in attendance for the past 25 years, with 16 of the last 19 years averaging more than 100% of capacity.
In addition to being the home of the Cardinals, Freedom Hall has hosted NCAA tournament games ten times, including six Final Fours between 1958 and 1969. The arena has also hosted 11 conference tournaments, nine Metro Conference Tournaments and two Conference USA tournaments—2001 and 2003. It has also hosted the Kentucky Boys' High School State Basketball Tournament (also known as the Sweet 16) 23 times, including every year from 1965 to 1978. In 1984, the floor of the arena was lowered about 10 feet (3.0 m) to increase the capacity of the arena from 16,613 to its current figure. In the 1996–97 season Freedom Hall averaged an attendance of 19,590 surpassing arena capacity. Freedom Hall hosts the Championship tractor pull every February during the National Farm Machinery Show.
From 2001 to 2008, the arena football team Louisville Fire of the af2 played in Freedom Hall before ceasing operations.
On the lower level is the Kentucky Athletic Hall of Fame where an engraved bronze plaque honors each inductee.The University of Louisville men's basketball team played their final game at Freedom Hall in front of a record crowd of 20,138 on March 6, 2010, against Syracuse University, the #1 ranked team in the nation. Louisville won in an upset 78–68.
The arena began to gain new tenants in 2012 with the addition of the Kentucky Stickhorses, and in 2013, with the addition of the Kentucky Xtreme. However, the Kentucky Stickhorses folded in 2014 after the lack of wins and the lack of attendance. The Kentucky Xtreme were suspended mid-season with other teams playing the remainder of their season. In 2020, the Bellarmine University Knights selected Freedom Hall as their home for men's and women's basketball.

Gallery
See also
List of events at Freedom Hall
KFC Yum! Center
Sports in Louisville, Kentucky
List of attractions and events in the Louisville metropolitan area
Passage 5:
Cleveland City Hall
Cleveland City Hall is the seat of government for the City of Cleveland, Ohio, and the home of Cleveland City Council and the office of the Mayor of Cleveland. It opened in 1916 and is located at 601 Lakeside Avenue in the Civic Center area of Downtown Cleveland. The building was the first of its kind designed by Cleveland architect J. Milton Dyer for governmental purposes for a major U.S. city. At the time of its construction, City Hall was to continue the city planning of Daniel Burnham's 1903 Group Plan. City Hall stands as a historic landmark that was added to the Cleveland Landmarks Commission.The rotunda in the building has been the site of numerous weddings, rallies, protests, and galas. The body of U.S. Representative Louis Stokes lay in state in the rotunda for the public to pay their respects after his death in 2015.

Construction
The original design had been finalized by 1907 and features Neoclassical elements, but it would take nearly 10 more years before that design would be realized. By the time of its construction, Dyer had undertaken several important building commissions in the Cleveland area and was known for his ornate but refined style of architecture. The building cost $3 million in 1916 (equivalent to $81 million in 2022) and took nearly five years to complete with construction commencing in 1912. The building is located on the bluff that overlooks the North Coast Harbor district that abuts Lake Erie and the Port of Cleveland. 
The Cleveland City Council Chambers underwent major renovations in 1951 and 1977. However, the outside of the building has remained largely unchanged since 1916, save for normal repairs, refittings and the usual upkeep of the superstructure. City Hall stands next to Willard Park and The Mall and is across the street from Public Hall.

Occupants
The following city agencies are in building:
Mayor's Office Subdivisions
Building and Housing
Civil Service Commission
Community Development
Community Relations
Finance
Law
Personnel and Human Resources
Public SafetyThe city of Cleveland has numerous other agencies and departments spread throughout downtown buildings, these include, Carl B. Stokes Public Works Building which is headquarters to Cleveland Division of Water, the Tower at Erieview, Cleveland Public Powerhouse and Public Hall, among others. As with other major U.S. cities as the city expanded and diversified, the City Hall building could no longer house all of the needed departments.

See also
Downtown Cleveland
Civic Center (Cleveland)
Passage 6:
Louisville RiverFrogs
The Louisville RiverFrogs were a professional ice hockey team competing in the East Coast Hockey League (ECHL), which was a mid-level professional American hockey league with teams from all over the United States as well as one franchise from Canada. The team was based in Louisville, Kentucky and played from 1995 to 1998. Their home venue was Broadbent Arena (nicknamed "The Swamp" for their duration; capacity 6,600) at the Kentucky Exposition Center.
At the conclusion of the 1997–1998 season, the franchise was sold and moved to Florida to become the Miami Matadors for a year before moving to Ohio as the Cincinnati Cyclones in 2001. The Cyclones are still currently playing in the ECHL. They started out playing their games in Cincinnati Gardens, but they now play at the Heritage Bank Center. The Cyclones are also the minor league affiliate to the Rochester Americans of the American Hockey League (AHL), as well as the Buffalo Sabres of the National Hockey League (NHL).
The team's mascot was Rowdy River Frog. The RiverFrogs games were locally known for the amount of non-hockey-related entertainment at shows, including a giant frog blimp, hot tubs, and concession booths.

See also
Sports in Louisville, Kentucky
Passage 7:
Louisville Fire
The Louisville Fire was an arena football team that played its home games at the Brown-Forman Field in Freedom Hall in Louisville, Kentucky. They were a 2001 expansion team of the af2.  Their owner/operator was former Pro Bowl lineman and Louisville native Will Wolford. The team was somewhat successful. After a rocky first few seasons they finally found success in 2004 and then made it all the way to the Arena Cup in the 2005 season.
On December 19, 2001, Jeff Brohm was named the head coach of the Louisville Fire arena football team. The Fire started the 0–7 before they defeated the Carolina Rhinos 31–28 to improve to 1–7. The Fire would finish the season 2–14.In 2003, English was hired to replace Brohm as the head coach of the Louisville Fire af2 team. He was fired after just two games with a record of 2–2.In July 2007, it was announced that the team planned on selling portions of the team to local ownership (aka the NFL's Green Bay Packers) in an attempt to boost season ticket sales and then buy the shares back in time before the team joined the AFL.In November 2008, the Louisville Fire ceased operations.

Award winners
2004 – Takua Furutani – International Player of the Year
2005 – Matthew Sauk – Offensive Player of the Year
2005 – Danny Kight – Kicker of the Year
2006 – Brett Dietz – Rookie of the Year
2006 – Rob Mager – Offensive Player of the Year
2008 – Elizabeth "Liz" Horrall – Miss Louisville Fire Football

Season-by-season
Coaching staff
See also
Sports in Louisville, Kentucky
Louisville Cardinals
Passage 8:
Broadbent Arena
Broadbent Arena is a 6,600 seat multi-purpose arena in Louisville, Kentucky. It was home to the Louisville Icehawks and Louisville RiverFrogs ECHL teams.  The arena, along with Cardinal Stadium and Freedom Hall, is located on the grounds of the Kentucky Exposition Center in Louisville.  The arena is used for equestrian events, and other fairground type activities. As of January 2021, the arena is being used as a major distribution site for COVID-19 vaccines.

See also
Sports in Louisville, Kentucky
Passage 9:
Freedom Hall Civic Center
Freedom Hall Civic Center is a multi-purpose arena in Johnson City, Tennessee.Starting in 2014, it became the basketball venue for East Tennessee State University.

History
Freedom Hall Civic Center opened in 1974 on the Liberty Bell Complex next to Science Hill High School. The arena was built by the city of Johnson City to be used as an entertainment venue and additional space for the middle and high schools located on the property. Over the years the venue has been used for sporting events, theatrical productions, concerts, ice shows, and a rodeo venue.
Former and current entertainment include concerts from Van Halen, Bon Jovi, Eric Clapton, Def Leppard, Poison (band), Ozzy Osbourne, Mötley Crüe,  KISS, Bruce Springsteen, Third Day, For King & Country, Chicago, AC/DC, Lynyrd Skynyrd (original band), Metallica, Elvis Presley, Elton John, and Aerosmith. Entertainment from professional wrestling organizations Jim Crockett Promotions, WWE, Smoky Mountain Wrestling, and from the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus.

See also
List of NCAA Division I basketball arenas
Passage 10:
Johnson City 2001
Johnson City 2001 is a complete concert album by Widespread Panic.  The three disc set is the fifth release from the Widespread Panic archives.  The performance was recorded live at Freedom Hall Civic Center in Johnson City, Tennessee on November 20, 2001. The multi-track recording featured all original band members including the late guitarist, Michael Houser.

Track listing
Disc 1
"L.A." (Widespread Panic) - 4:45
"Wondering" (Widespread Panic) - 7:41
"It Ain't No Use" (Joseph "Zigaboo" Modeliste / Art Neville / Leo Nocentelli / George Porter Jr.) - 10:27
"Impossible" (Widespread Panic) - 5:04
"Worry" (Widespread Panic) - 7:16
"New Blue" (Widespread Panic) - 4:41
"Holden Oversoul" (Widespread Panic) - 8:03
"Stop-Go" (Widespread Panic) - 10:20
"Makes Sense To Me" (Daniel Hutchens) - 4:27

Disc 2
"Weak Brain, Narrow Mind" (Willie Dixon) - 9:13
"One Arm Steve" (Widespread Panic) - 4:04
"Old Neighborhood" (Widespread Panic) - 6:22
"Trouble" (Cat Stevens) - 2:57
"Love Tractor" (Widespread Panic) - 7:18
"Pigeons" (Widespread Panic) - 11:37
"Airplane" (Widespread Panic) - 14:06
"Drums" (Widespread Panic) - 16:27

Disc 3
"Drums and Bass" (Widespread Panic) - 7:41
"Astronomy Domine" (Syd Barrett) - 2:45
"Good Morning Little School Girl (Sonny Boy Williamson I)"- 8:16
"The Waker" (Widespread Panic) - 4:50
"She Caught the Katy (Taj Mahal / James Rachell)" - 4:21
"Gimme" (Widespread Panic) - 5:24
"Chunk of Coal" (Billy Joe Shaver) - 4:23

Personnel
Widespread Panic
John Bell - Vocals, Guitar
Michael Houser - Guitar, Vocals
Dave Schools - Bass, Vocals
Todd Nance - Drums
John "Jojo" Hermann - Keyboards, Vocals
Domingo "Sunny" Ortiz - Percussion

Production
Mixed by Chris Rabold and Drew Vandenberg at Chase Park Transduction in Athens, GA.
Recorded by Brad Blettenberg
Mastered by Drew Vandenberg at Chase Park Transduction Studios in Athens, GA.
Setlist by Garrie Vereen
Additional audience recordings provided by Charles Fox