Passage 1:
Qionghai
Qionghai, or in local Hainanese dialect as Kheng Hai, is one of the seven county-level cities of Hainan province, China. Although called a "city", Qionghai refers to a large land area in Hainan - an area which was once a county. Within this area is the main city, Qionghai City. It is located in the east of the island at the mouth of the Wanquan River, 86 kilometres (53 mi) from the provincial capital of Haikou. It has an area of 1,692 square kilometres (653 sq mi) and in 2010, it had a population of 483,217 people.
The seat of government is at Jiaji (simplified Chinese: 嘉积镇; traditional Chinese: 嘉積鎮; pinyin: Jiājī Zhèn), locally referred to as Kachek city. Bo'ao, seat of the Boao Forum for Asia, belongs to Qionghai.
The former counties of Qiongdong (postal: Kiungtung) and Lehui (樂㑹, postal: Lokwei) are now part of Qionghai City.

Climate
Qionghai has a tropical monsoon climate (Köppen Am). Monsoonal influences are strong, with a relatively lengthy wet season and a pronounced dry season (January to March). Rainfall is heaviest and most frequent from August to October, when typhoons may strike, and is otherwise still common throughout the year, averaging an annual total of 2,100 mm (83 in); there are 9.3 days with 50 mm (1.97 in) or more of rain. Humidity is consistently very high, with an average relative humidity of 85.8%. With monthly percent possible sunshine ranging from 31% in February to 62% in July, the city receives 1913 hours of bright sunshine annually; the city receives about only a third of possible sunshine from December thru February, while May thru July is the sunniest time of year.

Administrative divisions
Qionghai is divided into 12 towns:

Other
The most famous dish of Qionghai is called Kazek Duck.
Qionghai is served by Qionghai Bo'ao Airport.

Notable people
Lee Chiaw Meng, served in Prime minister Lee Kuan Yew's cabinet as Minister of Education, Minister of Science and Technology and Member of Parliament.
Patrick Lee, Billionaire Business entrepreneur magnate and the founder of Lee & Man Paper.
Pang Chin Hin (冯振轩), entrepreneur, chairman and founder of the well-known food manufacturing company Mamee Double-Decker (M) Sdn Bhd.
Pang Lim (庞琳), entrepreneur and community figure who founded and currently chairs the Koufu Group Ltd, an F&B establishment operators.
Wee Meng Chee, rapper, singer-songwriter and filmmaker.

See also
List of administrative divisions of Hainan
Passage 2:
Daying County
Daying County (simplified Chinese: 大英县; traditional Chinese: 大英縣; pinyin: Dàyīng Xiàn) is a county of Sichuan province, China, under the administration of Suining City and in the central part of the Sichuan Basin. In 2002, it had a population of 520,000 residing in an area of 703 km2 (271 sq mi).

Tourist attractions
Daying is the home of the "Chinese Dead Sea", a tourist attraction that is based on a salt lake with nine times the salinity of the ocean and which constitutes the largest indoor water park in China.
A stationary replica of the Titanic is under construction in Daying County as well.

Transportation
The G42 Shanghai–Chengdu Expressway and Dazhou–Chengdu Railway (达成铁路) traverses east–west through the entire length of the county.
The county is served by the Daying East Station (大英东站) on the Suining–Chengdu Railway.
Passage 3:
Suining
Suining (simplified Chinese: 遂宁; traditional Chinese: 遂寧; Sichuanese Pinyin: Xu4nin2; Sichuanese pronunciation: [ɕy˨˦nin˨˩]; pinyin: Sùiníng; Wade–Giles: Sui-ning) is a prefecture-level city of eastern Sichuan province in Southwest China. In 2002, Suining had a population of 658,798.

Geography and climate
Suining is located in the center of the Sichuan Basin and on the central reaches of the Fu River, bordering Chongqing, Guang'an and Nanchong to the east, Neijiang and Ziyang to the south, the provincial capital of Chengdu to the west, and Deyang and Mianyang to the north. Its prefecture, or administrative, area ranges in latitude from 30° 10' 50" to 31° 10' 50" N, or 108.9 kilometres (67.7 mi) and in longitude from 105° 03' 26" to 106° 59' 49" E, or 90.3 kilometres (56.1 mi). While much of the prefecture is mountainous, the urban area itself, which occupies 40 square kilometres (15 sq mi), is located on flat land.
Suining has a monsoon-influenced humid subtropical climate (Köppen Cwa) and is largely mild and humid, with four distinct seasons. Winter is short, mild, and foggy, though actual precipitation is low. January averages 6.6 °C (43.9 °F), and while frost may occur, snow is rare. Summers are long, hot and humid, with the daily average in July and August around 27 °C (81 °F), with August being slightly warmer. Rainfall is light in winter and can be heavy in summer, and 75% of the annual total occurs from May to September.

Places of interest
According to local legend, Suining is the Hometown of Guanyin and her sisters. A folk song declares that one resides at Lingquan Temple, another at Guangde Temple, while only the third sister is afar, in the Putuo Mountains of Southern China.There exists Lingquan Temple, Guangde Temple, and the Dead Sea, which are regarded as the 4A scenic zone. And there is also a Celadon Museum of Sichuan, which is referred to as a 3A scenic zone.
The percentage of land-covered forests of Suining is approximately 34%, it's the first Provincial Environmental Protection City in Sichuan. The 30,000-capacity Suining Sports Centre Stadium is located in the city. The stadium opened in 2014 and it is used mostly for football matches.

Administrative divisions
Transport
Highway
China National Highway 318

Rail
Suining is the junction for the Dazhou–Chengdu and Suining–Chongqing Railways, which collective form the westernmost section of the Shanghai–Wuhan–Chengdu High-Speed Railway.

Well-known inhabitants
Chen Zi'ang, Tang dynasty poet (661-702), was a native of the Suining area.
Chen Wei, a pro-democracy activist born in 1969 who has been arrested in February 2011 and sentenced for 9-years in prison on December 23, 2011 for "inciting subversion of state power" by the Suining intermediate people's court.
Liu Xianbin, a pro-democracy activist born in 1968 who has been arrested in June 2010 and sentenced for 10-years in prison for inciting subversion of state power.
Li Bifeng, a pro-democracy activist and friend of Liao Yiwu who is facing 5-years prison for "economic crimes".
Ju Jingyi, a well-known Chinese singer and actress. She rose to fame as a member of Chinese idol girl group SNH48 and was part of Team NII until her graduation in December 2017.