Passage 1:
A Wise Old Owl
"A Wise Old Owl" is an English language nursery rhyme. It has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 7734 and in The Oxford Dictionary of Nursery Rhymes, 2nd Ed. of 1997, as number 394. The rhyme is an improvement of a traditional nursery rhyme "There was an owl lived in an oak, wisky, wasky, weedle."

Lyrics
This version was first published in Punch, April 10, 1875, and ran as follows.

One version was published upon bookmarks during the mid-1930s, and goes as follows:

The 1875 version is ungrammatical from the standpoint of modern English, relying on an apo koinou construction for meter; this is also used in a children's song called Bingo.

History
The rhyme refers to the traditional image of owls as the symbol of wisdom. It was recorded as early as 1875 and is apparently older than that. It was quoted by John D. Rockefeller in 1909 and is frequently misattributed to Edward Hersey Richards and William R. Cubbage.During World War II, the United States army used the rhyme on a poster with the tweaked ending, "Soldier.... be like that old bird!" with the caption "Silence means security."


== Notes ==
Passage 2:
Aiken Drum
"Aiken Drum" (Roud 2571) is a popular Scottish folk song and nursery rhyme, which probably has its origins in a Jacobite song about the Battle of Sheriffmuir (1715).

Lyrics
Modern versions of the lyrics include:

Other versions of the song include the lyrics:

Origins
The rhyme was first printed by James Hogg in Jacobite Reliques in 1820, as a Jacobite song about the Battle of Sheriffmuir (1715):

Sir Walter Scott in his novel The Antiquary (1816) refers to Aiken Drum in a story told by an old beggar about the origins of what has been perceived by the protagonist as a Roman fort. The beggar tells him that it was actually built by him and others for "auld Aiken Drum's bridal" and that one of the masons cut the shape of a ladle into the stone as a joke on the bridegroom. The reference suggests that the rhyme, and particularly the chorus, was well enough known in the early nineteenth century for the joke to be understood.

Performances
The Scottish folk group The Singing Kettle performs this song for children in an interactive way by allowing the children to decide the foods of which Aiken Drum is made. A version is included on their CD Singalong Songs from Scotland, produced in 2003 for Smithsonian Folkways Recordings.Popular Armenian-Canadian children's singer Raffi played a version of the song, called "Aikendrum", on his album Singable Songs for the Very Young (1976). Raffi's version of the song replaces the various foods with ones that would be more familiar to an American audience: spaghetti for Aikendrum's hair, meatballs for his eyes, cheese for his nose, and pizza for his mouth. This version was also the Barney & Friends version.
The album Classic Scots Ballads (1961) by Ewan MacColl and Peggy Seeger includes a recording of this song with the original lyrics.

The Brownie of Blednoch
Aiken Drum is also the name given by the Scottish poet William Nicholson to the brownie in his poem "The Brownie of Blednoch" (1828). The poem incorporates traditional brownie legends, but there is no evidence of the name being used for a brownie prior to Nicholson.

In popular culture
Aiken Drum is the name chosen for one of the main characters in the science fiction series The Saga of Pliocene Exile.

See also
Passage 3:
Row, Row, Row Your Boat
"Row, Row, Row Your Boat" is an English language nursery rhyme and a popular children's song, often sung in a round. It has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 19236.
Bing Crosby included the song in a medley on his album 101 Gang Songs (1961). Crosby also used the song as part of a round with his family during his concert at the London Palladium in 1976. The performance was captured on the album Bing Crosby Live at the London Palladium.

Lyrics
The most common modern version is often sung as a round for up to four voice parts (play ). A possible arrangement for SATB is as follows:

 The text above is often sung multiple times in succession to allow for the different voices to interweave with each other, forming four-part harmony.

Melody
Origins
The earliest printing of the song is from 1852, when the lyrics were published with similar lyrics to those used today, but with a very different tune. It was reprinted again two years later with the same lyrics and another tune. The modern tune was first recorded with the lyrics in 1881, mentioning Eliphalet Oram Lyte in The Franklin Square Song Collection but not making it clear whether he was the composer or adapter.

Legacy and alternative versions
The nursery rhyme is well known, appearing in several films, e.g. Star Trek V, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind and Manos: The Hands of Fate. People often add additional verses, a form of children's street culture, with the intent of either extending the song or (especially in the case of more irreverent versions) to make it funny, parody it, or substitute another sensibility for the perceived innocent one of the original. In Bean, Rowan Atkinson (Mr. Bean) and Peter MacNicol (David Langley) also used this parody singing in the film.  Don Music, a muppet character in Sesame Street, changed the lyrics to feature a car instead of a boat.In addition, Aimee Mann included a brief interpolation in "Choice in the matter" from her second solo album "I'm with stupid".
Versions include:

and
and
 and
and
and
and
and


== Notes and references ==
Passage 4:
Pretty Little Dutch Girl
"Pretty Little Dutch Girl" is a children's nursery rhyme, clapping game and jump-rope rhyme. 	It has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 12986.

Lyrics
The lyrics of the song vary considerably. British versions of this rhyme differ significantly, perhaps because many of the allusions in the rhyme were unknown to British children at the time. Common versions include:

I am a pretty little Dutch girl,
As pretty as I can be, be, be,
And all the boys in the baseball team
Go crazy over me, me, me.My boy friend’s name is Fatty,
He comes from the Senoratti,
With turned-up toes and a pimple on his nose,
And this is how the story goes:Variation 1

I am a pretty little Dutch girl
As pretty as I can be
And all the boys in the neighborhood
Are crazy over meMy boyfriend's name is Mello
He comes from the land of Jello
With pickles for his toes and a cherry for his nose
And that's the way my story goesVariation 2

I am a pretty little Dutch girl,
As pretty as pretty can be,
And all the boys around the block
Go crazy over me.My boyfriend's name is Billy,
He comes from good ole Philly,
With a cherry on his nose
And ten fat toes,
And that's the way my story goes.My boyfriend gave me peaches,
My boyfriend gave me pears,
My boyfriend gave me fifty cents
And kissed me on the stairs.I gave him back his peaches,
I gave him back his pears,
I gave him back his fifty cents
And kicked....him....down.....the.....stairs!Variation 3

I am a pretty little Dutch girl,
As pretty as I can be.
and all the boys in the neighborhood
come chasing after me me me.My boyfriend's name is Tony,
he comes from the land of bologna,
with a pickle on his nose and 3 sore toes
and that's the way the story goes!One day he gave me peaches,
one day he gave me pears,
one day he gave me 50 cents
and took me to the fair!After the fair was over,
I asked him to take me home,
he ran off with another girl
and left me all alone!I gave him back his peaches.
I gave him back his pears.
I gave him back his 50 cents,
and kicked him down the stairs!Variation 4

I am a pretty little Dutch girl
As pretty as pretty can be.
And all the boys around the block
Go crazy over me.I hate to do the dishes
I hate to do the chores
But I love to kiss my boyfriend
Behind the kitchen door.One day while I was walking
I heard my boyfriend talking
To a pretty little girl
with strawberry curlsand this is what he said:
I L-O-V-E love you
All the T-I-M-E time
And I will K-I-S-S kiss you
In the D-A-R-K dark.Variation 5 (Western Canada, 1960s)

I am a pretty little Dutch girl,
As pretty as pretty can be, be, be,
And all the boys on the baseball team
are chasing after me, me, me.My father came from England,
My mother came from France, France, France.
My boyfriend came from the USA
to teach me how to dance, dance, dance.My boyfriend gave me apples,
My boyfriend gave me pears, pears, pears.
My boyfriend gave me fifty cents
and kissed me up the stairs, stairs, stairs.I gave him back his apples,
I gave him back his pears, pears, pears.
I gave him back his fifty cents
and kicked him down the stairs, stairs, stairs....with a pickle on his nose and 3 sore toes,
that's the way it goes, goes, goes.Variation 6

I am a pretty little Dutch girl
As pretty as pretty can be
And all the boys around my block
Go crazy over me!I had a boyfriend, Patty
Who comes from Cincinnati
With 48 toes and a pickle on his nose
And this is the way my story goes...One day when I was walkin'
I heard my boyfriend talkin'
To a pretty little girl with a strawberry curls
And this is what he said to her...I L-O-V-E, love you
to K-I-S-S, kiss you
yes K-I-S-S, kiss you in
the D-A-R-K dark boom boom!Variation 7

I am a pretty little Dutch girl
As pretty as pretty can be
and all the boys in my hometown
are crazy over meMy boyfriend's name is Chico
he came from Puerto Rico
with a rubber nose
and 28 toes
and this is how my story goesOne day as I was walking
I heard my Chico talking
to a pretty little girl
with strawberry curls
and this is what he said to herI L-O-V-E love you
I K-I-S-S kiss you
I K-I-S-S kiss you
in the D-A-R-K dark dark darkVariation 8

I am a pretty little Dutch girl,
As pretty as can be, be, be,
And all the boys on the baseball team,
Go crazy after me, me, me!
One day they gave me peaches,
One day they gave me pears, pears, pears,
One days they gave me 50 cents and took me to the fair, fair, fair.
And when the fair was over,
I asked them to take me home, home, home,
They said they had another date and left me all alone, lone, lone.
I gave them back their peaches,
I gave them back their pears, pears, pears,
I gave them back their 50 cents and kicked them down the stairs, stairs, stairs!Variation 9 (Northwest England, 2010s)

My boyfriend gave me an apple
My boyfriend gave me a pear
My boyfriend gave me a kiss on the lips, and he threw me down the stairsI gave him back his apple
I gave him back his pear
I gave him back kiss on the lips, and I threw him down the stairsI threw him over London
I threw him over France
I threw him over the football pitch, and he lost his underpantsHis underpants were yellow
His underpants were green
His underpants were black and white, and smelt like rotten cheeseVariation 10 (Austin, Texas 1960s) Given the actions that went with this, people assume this went through music halls.I am a pretty little Dutch girl
As pretty as pretty can be
And all the boys around the block
Are crazy over me.

My boyfriend's name is Harry.
He comes from Paris, France
With turned up toes and a pimple on his nose
And this is the way my story goes.

My boyfriend gave me apples,
My boyfriend gave me pears.
My boyfriend gave me fifty cents
And took me to the fair.

One day as I was walking
I heard my boyfriend talking
To a pretty little girl with a strawberry curl
and this is what he said to her:I L-O-V-E, love you.
I K-I-S-S, kiss you.
I K-I-S-S, kiss you
On your F-A-C-E, face, face, face.

I gave him back his apples
I gave him back his pears
I gave him back his fifty cents
And threw him down the stairs.I threw him over London.
I threw him over France.
I threw him over [substitute wherever here]
And he lost his underpants.

I have a little brother.
His name is Tiny Tim
I put him in the bathtub
To see if he could swim

He drank up all the water
He ate up all the soap
He tried to eat the bathtub
But it wouldn't go down his throat

Oh, Suzy called the doctor,
Oh, Suzy called the nurse,
Oh, Suzy called the lady
With the alligator purse.

in walked the doctor,
In walked the nurse,
In walked the lady
With the alligator purse.

Out walked the doctor,
Out walked the nurse,
Out walked the lady
With the alligator purse.

My boyfriend's name is Harry.
He comes from Paris, France
With turned up toes and a pimple on his nose
And this is the way my story goes.
Variation 11

I am a pretty little Dutch girl,
As pretty as can be,
And all the boys around the block are crazy over me, me, me.
My boyfriend's name is Chaim,
He comes from yerushalayim
With a pickle up his nose and three black toes,
And this is how my story goes.

One day when I was walking,
I saw my boyfriend talking
To a pretty little girl with a strawberry curl
And this is what he said to her:
I L-O-V-E love you,
I K-I-S-S kiss you.
And he fell in the lake,
And he swallowed a snake,
And he came out with a bellyache.Variation 12 (Long Island, NY, 1970s - a clapping game)

I am a pretty little Dutch girl,
As pretty as pretty can be,
And all the boys around my block go crazy over me.
My boyfriend's name is Larry
He comes from Cincinnati
With his forty-two toes and a pickle in his nose
And this is what he said to me:
"I L-O-V-E love you
I K-I-S-S kiss you
I K-I-S-S kiss you on your
F-A-C-E, F-A-C-E, F-A-C-E, face, face, face!"Variation 13 (from Australia)

I am a pretty little Dutch girl,
as pretty as pretty can be be be.
And all the boys in the baseball team,
go crazy over me me me.My boyfriends name is Steven,
He comes from New Zealand.
With five fat toes and a pimple on his nose,
And this is how my story goes.One day when I was walking,
I heard my boyfriend talking.
To a pretty little girl with strawberry curls,
and this is what he said to her:
"I LOVE love you and I KISS kiss you"
So jump in the lake and swallow a snake,
and come out with a belly ache.Variation 14 (from Tóg Sos CD, Ireland 2003)

I am a pretty little Dutch girl,
As pretty as I can be, be, be,
And all the boys in the baseball team
Go crazy over me, me, me.My boyfriend’s name is Johnny,
He comes from Cincinnati,
With forty-eight toes and a pickle up his nose,
And this is how my story goes.One day I went out walking,
And I heard my boyfriend talking
To a pretty little girl with strawberry curls
And this is what he said to her...
"I L-O-V-E love you,
I K-I-S-S kiss you,"
So I jumped in a lake and swallowed a snake
And now I have a bellyache!Variation 15 (from USA, East Coast Early 2000s)

I am a pretty little Dutch girl,
As pretty, as pretty as can be
And all the boys in the baseball team
Go crazy over me, me, me.My boyfriend’s name is Tommy,
He comes from Salami,
With a pickle up his nose,
And 55 toes
And that's the way my story goes!

Story told within the song
The rhyme (and at least some of its variants) tells the story of an extremely beautiful girl (of Dutch descent, hence the song's title) who is popular with boys (particularly around the neighborhood, block or the whole town) and has a rather unattractive boyfriend; some versions mention that the boyfriend dumps the pretty Dutch girl in favor of an even prettier girl. The Dutch girl is often depicted from illustration to illustration wearing traditional Dutch clothing, complete with ribbon-adorned long braids in her hair, wooden shoes and (occasionally exaggerated) Dutch cap.

Origins and distribution
The origins of the rhyme are obscure. The tune of the song is similar to "A Sailor Went to Sea" and "Miss Suzie Had A Steamboat" (though some notes are removed to account for the double-syllable words "pretty" and "little", and some notes are added in). The earliest record found so far is for New York around 1940. It seems to have spread over the US by the 1950s and reached Britain in 1959, where it was taken up very quickly across the country to become one of the most popular skipping rhymes among girls.The tune is also used in British pubs as a drinking song in which a person is challenged by their companions to down their drink. This version goes like this:

We like to drink with (insert name here)
'Cause (insert name here) is our mate.
And when we drink with (insert name here)
He/she/they finish(es) in 8! 7! 6! 5! 4! 3! 2! 1!

Use in children's media
In the Wee Sing Video Series video Grandpa's Magical Toys, the song is represented and sung by a blonde-haired Barbie-like doll in Dutch traditional costume aptly named "Dutch Girl" (played by Jacqueline "Jacque" Drew) that enjoys jump-roping and is very concerned about the red ribbons tying her long braids together; she even gets very emotional when those ribbons come undone (she prefers them to be straight), but the three shrunken children in the movie (named Peter, David and Sara) talk her out of her moping and convince her that her then-straight ribbons aren't the reason why she played with them. Convinced, she then wears her ribbons undone throughout the rest of the movie, and her dress seem to be falling apart by the movie's end. She even says that Pretty Little Dutch Girl is "my [her] song" when she is introduced to the three kids, and she also has a tendency to prattle.
(5:01)
In the 1977 Australian animated film Dot and the Kangaroo, two hopping mice near the end of the waterhole scene sang a song about a bushgirl who is pretty to the tune of Pretty Little Dutch Girl after they see Dot touching the bandicoot and scaring it and made the bandicoot jump in the waterhole where Dot laughs on what she did and the hopping mice laugh as well, so they did the same thing Dot did. One of the hopping mice pushed the other one into the waterhole.

Notes
External links
Various parody versions and original text
Passage 5:
Did You Ever See a Lassie?
"Did You Ever See a Lassie?" is a traditional folk song with a Roud Folk Song Index number of 5040.

Lyrics
Modern versions of the lyrics include:

Did you ever see a lassie,
A lassie, a lassie?
Did you ever see a lassie
Go this way and that?Go this way and that way,
Go this way and that way.
Did you ever see a lassie
Go this way and that?Did you ever see a laddie,
A laddie, a laddie?
Did you ever see a laddie
Go this way and that?Go this way and that way,
Go this way and that way.
Did you ever see a laddie
Go this way and that?

Origins
The use of the terms "lassie" and "laddie" mean that this song is often attributed to possible origins in Scotland (by various forms of media; see "references" section), but it was first collected in the United States in the last decade of the nineteenth century and was not found in Great Britain until the mid-twentieth century. However, it can be surmised that the words to the song may have come from Scottish immigrants or Scottish-Americans because of the aforementioned terms.Along with "The More We Get Together", it is generally sung to the same tune as "Oh du lieber Augustin", a song written in Germany or Vienna in the late seventeenth century.It was first published in 1909, in Games for the Playground, Home, School and Gymnasium by Jessie Hubbell Bancroft.

As a game
The song is often accompanied by a circle singing game. Players form a circle and dance around one player. When they reach the end of the verse they stop, the single in the middle performs an action (such as Highland dancing), which everyone then imitates, before starting the verse again, often changing the single player to a boy, or a boy can join the center player - thus creating an extra verse in the song ("Did you ever see some children...").

References in popular culture and children's media
The song is featured in the 1963 motion picture Ladybug, Ladybug.  In the movie, children sing the song as part of a game while walking home from school during a nuclear bomb attack drill.
The song, as sung by children, was used in a 1990 commercial for Maidenform, and played over a succession of pictures of women in uncomfortable-looking clothing, was followed by the tag-line, "Isn't it nice to live in a time when women aren't being pushed around so much anymore?"
The song is featured in an episode of The Simpsons, "The Otto Show", and was titled "Hail to the Bus Driver".
Passage 6:
Billy Boy
"Billy Boy" is a traditional folk song and nursery rhyme found in the United States, in which "Billy Boy" is asked various questions, and the answers all center on his quest to marry a girl who is said to be too young to leave her mother. 
It has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 326.  It is a variant of the traditional English folk song "My Boy Billy", collected by Ralph Vaughan Williams and published by him in 1912 as number 232 in Novello's School Songs.

Origins and interpretations
The nursery rhyme, framed in question-and-answer form, is ironic and teasing in tone:
Oh, where have you been, Billy Boy, Billy Boy?
Oh, where have you been, Charming Billy?
I have been to seek a wife, she's the joy of my whole life
But she's a young thing and cannot leave her mother
The narrative of the song has been related by some to "Lord Randall", a murder ballad from the British Isles, in which the suitor is poisoned by the woman he visits.By contrast, Robin Fox uses the song to make a point about cooking and courtship, and observes:

Feeding has always been closely linked with courtship […] With humans this works two ways since we are the only animals who cook: the bride is usually appraised for her cooking ability. (“Can she bake a cherry pie, Billy boy, Billy boy?”) In some cultures this is far more important than her virginity.
In the traditional last verse of the song, Billy Boy is asked how old the girl is. While his answer is convoluted, it reveals an age that is old and not young - adding to the irony and humor of the song.  
The song was also parodied in 1941 by Pete Seeger and Lee Hays in an anti-war protest song of the same name.

In popular culture
A line from the song was used as the title for Henry Jaglom's 1983 film Can She Bake a Cherry Pie?, which concerns a middle-aged New York City musician who, after being dumped by her husband, develops a relationship with a middle-aged divorced social worker. The song "Billy Boy" is also performed in the film.In the 1948 Walt Disney film So Dear to My Heart, Burl Ives performs snippets of the song throughout the movie.
In the 1981 movie Bill, both Bill and Barry play and sing the song.

Recordings
Further variants have been recorded, some greatly extending the number of verses and the tasks that the wife can perform. An extended version of the song in which the lover performs many tasks besides baking a cherry pie was collected by Alan Lomax and John Avery Lomax; it appears in American Ballads and Folk Songs. The Lomax version names the woman being courted Betsy Jane.
A version of the song by Jerry Lee Lewis was released on the 1975 album Rare, Vol. 1.
Jazz pianist Ahmad Jamal arranged and recorded the song in 1951. The recording was later featured on his 1959 album The Piano Scene of Ahmad Jamal, as well as on the 2008 Poinciana compilation album.
Led by pianist Red Garland, the rhythm section of Miles Davis' band recorded Jamal's arrangement of "Billy Boy" for Davis' album Milestones (1958). It is the only track on the album that does not feature any horns playing.
An anti-war version of the song was released by Australian punk band Black Chrome on the 2018 album Age of Rage.
Guitarist Bill Frisell included an instrumental version of "Billy Boy" in his 1992 album  Have a Little Faith.

See also
Children's literature portal
National Book Award-winning novel (1998) Charming Billy, by Alice McDermott

Notes
Passage 7:
Three Little Kittens
"Three Little Kittens" is an English language nursery rhyme, probably  with roots in the British folk tradition. The rhyme as published today however is a sophisticated piece usually attributed to American poet Eliza Lee Cabot Follen (1787–1860). With the passage of time, the poem has been absorbed into the Mother Goose collection. The rhyme tells of three kittens who first lose, then find and soil, their mittens. When all is finally set to rights, the kittens receive their mother's approval and some pie. It has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 16150.
The poem was published in England in 1827 in a mock review by William Ewart Gladstone, writing as Bartholomew Bouverie, in The Eton Miscellany.A version was later published in 1833 as an anonymous addition to a volume of Follen's verse and in the United States in 1843. Follen may have developed and refined an existing, rude version of the poem, and, in the process, made it her own. The poem is a sophisticated production that avoids the typical moralization of 19th century children's literature in favour of anthropomorphic fantasy, satirical nonsense, and word play.

Text
From Gladstone, The Eton Miscellany (1827)

From Follen, New Nursery Songs for All Good Children (1843)

Background
According to Janet Sinclair Gray, author of Race and Time, "Three Little Kittens" may have origins in the British folk tradition, but the poem as known today is a sophisticated production far removed from such origins. Gray supports her assertion by pointing out that the cats are not the barnyard felines of folk material but bourgeois domestic cats who eat pie and wear mittens. Gray observes that the mother cat's disciplinary measures and the kittens' need to report their movements to her are also indicators of a bourgeois status. "Three Little Kittens" is attributed to Bostonian Sunday school teacher and abolitionist, Eliza Lee Cabot Follen (1787–1860), a member of a prominent New England family and the author of the juvenile novel The Well-Spent Hour. Gray explains that "Kittens" is unlike any of Follen's typical poems, but also notes that Follen is just the sort of person who would write such a piece. It is unlikely Follen composed "Kittens" wholecloth, Gray believes, but rather far more likely that she developed and refined an existing but rude version of the piece. In doing so, she made the poem her own. Although Follen disclaimed authorship following the poem's first appearance in print, she continued to publish it under her name in succeeding years.

Publication
The poem was printed in 1827 in The Eton Miscellany. A later version was printed in 1833 in Britain in Follen's Little Songs for Little Boys and Girls. It was an addition to the volume and probably inserted by the publisher. In the introduction to a subsequent edition, Follen denied any hand in the poem's composition, but took it under her wing and claimed ownership as the poem passed through various reprints. The poem was first published in the United States in 1843 in Follen's New Nursery Songs for All Good Children. An 1856 American reprint was subtitled "A Cat's Tale, with Additions".Cuthbert Bede (pen name of Edward Bradley) published a prose version in his Fairy Fables (1857). In 1858 R. M. Ballantyne published his prose version that elaborated Follen's poem 
in a volume of the Good Little Pig's Library. This version included a musical setting for Follen's poem.

Reception
"Three Little Kittens" was hugely popular and quickly absorbed into the Mother Goose collection. Unlike her female literary contemporaries who typically stressed moral edification in their children's pieces, Follen subordinated such edification in "Three Little Kittens" and emphasized fantasy involving anthropomorphic characters, verbal play, and satirical nonsense. The poem is considered a cornerstone in the shift from moral literature for children to romantic literature intended to amuse and entertain.

See also
The Milky Way (1940 film)
List of nursery rhymes

Notes


== External links ==
Passage 8:
What Are Little Boys Made Of?
"What Are Little Boys Made Of?" is a nursery rhyme dating from the early 19th century. It has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 821.
The author of the rhyme is uncertain, but may be English poet Robert Southey (1774–1843).

Lyrics
Here is a representative modern version of the lyrics:

The rhyme appears in many variant forms. For example, other versions may describe boys as being made of "snaps", "frogs", "snakes", or "slugs", rather than "snips" as above.

Origins
In the earliest known versions, the first ingredient for boys is either "snips" or "snigs", the latter being a Cumbrian dialect word for a small eel.
The rhyme sometimes appears as part of a larger work called What Folks Are Made Of or What All the World Is Made Of. Other stanzas describe what babies, young men, young women, sailors, soldiers, nurses, fathers, mothers, old men, old women, and all folks are made of. According to Iona and Peter Opie, this first appears in a manuscript by the English poet Robert Southey (1774–1843), who added the stanzas other than the two below. Though it is not mentioned elsewhere in his works or papers, it is generally agreed to be by him.The relevant section in the version attributed to Southey was:

See also
List of folk songs by Roud number
The Powerpuff Girls
Passage 9:
Tweedledum and Tweedledee
Tweedledum and Tweedledee are characters in an English nursery rhyme and in Lewis Carroll's 1871 book Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There. Their names may have originally come from an epigram written by poet John Byrom. The nursery rhyme has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 19800. The names have since become synonymous in western popular culture slang for any two people whose appearances and actions are identical.

Lyrics
Common versions of the nursery rhyme include:

Tweedledum and Tweedledee
    Agreed to have a battle;
For Tweedledum said Tweedledee
    Had spoiled his nice new rattle.Just then flew down a monstrous crow,
    As black as a tar-barrel;
Which frightened both the heroes so,
    They quite forgot their quarrel.

Origins
The words "Tweedle-dee and Tweedle-dum" make their first appearance in print as names applied to the composers George Frideric Handel and Giovanni Bononcini in "one of the most celebrated and most frequently quoted (and sometimes misquoted) epigrams", satirising disagreements between  Handel and Bononcini, written by John Byrom (1692–1763): in his satire, from 1725.

Some say, compar'd to Bononcini
That Mynheer Handel's but a Ninny
Others aver, that he to Handel
Is scarcely fit to hold a Candle
Strange all this Difference should be
'Twixt Tweedle-dum and Tweedle-dee!Although Byrom is clearly the author of the epigram, the last two lines have also been attributed to Jonathan Swift and Alexander Pope. While the familiar form of the rhyme was first printed in Original Ditties for the Nursery (c. 1805), Byrom may have drawn on an existing rhyme.

Through The Looking-Glass
The characters are perhaps best known from Lewis Carroll's Through the Looking-Glass and what Alice Found There (1871). Carroll, having introduced two fat little men named Tweedledee and Tweedledum, quotes the nursery rhyme, which the two brothers then go on to enact. They agree to have a battle, but never have one. When they see a monstrous black crow swooping down, they take to their heels. The Tweedle brothers never contradict each other, even when one of them, according to the rhyme, "agrees to have a battle". Rather, they complement each other's words, which led John Tenniel to portray them as twins in his illustrations for the book.

Other depictions
Tweedledee and Tweedledum appear in Disney's 1951 version of Alice in Wonderland, both voiced by J. Pat O'Malley, and representing the sun and moon as they tell Alice the story of The Walrus and the Carpenter, and the first stanza of the poem called, You Are Old, Father William before Alice quietly leaves to find the White Rabbit. The Disney versions of the characters later appeared in the Disney television series House of Mouse and one of them in the final scene of Who Framed Roger Rabbit.
Tweedledee and Tweedledum appear in Once Upon a Time in Wonderland, portrayed by Ben Cotton and Matty Finochio. They appear as the Red Queen's servants where they started out working for the Red King. While Tweedledum is shown to be loyal to the Red Queen, Tweedledee is shown to be loyal to Jafar.


== Notes ==
Passage 10:
What Are Little Girls Made Of?
"What Are Little Girls Made Of?" is the seventh episode of the first season of the American science fiction television series, Star Trek. Written by Robert Bloch and directed by James Goldstone, it first aired on October 20, 1966.
In the episode, Nurse Chapel searches for her long lost fiancé and uncovers his secret plan to create sophisticated androids for galactic conquest.
The first episode of the series to be repeated on NBC, the title of the episode is taken from the fourth line of the 19th-century nursery rhyme, "What Are Little Boys Made Of?"

Plot
The USS Enterprise, under the command of Captain Kirk, travels to the icy planet Exo-III to search for the exobiologist Dr. Roger Korby. Korby was the fiancé of Dr. McCoy's temporary assistant, Nurse Christine Chapel, who signed on to the Enterprise to search for Korby.
At Korby's request, Kirk and Chapel beam down alone to a cavern entrance, but Korby is not there to meet them. Finding this suspicious, Kirk has two security officers beamed down from the Enterprise. One is instructed to stay at the entrance and keep a lookout, and the other accompanies Kirk and Chapel. The three begin to descend into a system of caves. When passing over a deep chasm, the security officer disappears. Shortly after, they meet Korby's aide Dr. Brown. Chapel recognizes him but is surprised the man does not remember her. Brown assures them that the security officer fell by accident, and the three continue on. Kirk contacts the remaining security officer and tells him to contact the Enterprise for reinforcements, but a strange creature kills the officer before he gets the chance. Meanwhile, Kirk, Chapel and Brown find Korby, who tells them that the caves were left by an extinct race. Korby shows Kirk and Chapel machinery that creates androids. With the help of Ruk, a still-functioning android from the time of the original inhabitants, Korby has created more androids, one being a beautiful woman he calls "Andrea". Brown is also an android. It is also revealed that Ruk had killed the security officers.
Korby creates an android duplicate of Kirk as Chapel looks on. As Kirk's personality is imprinted on the android, the real Kirk imagines himself insulting Spock as a "half-breed". Korby has the duplicate Kirk beamed aboard the Enterprise with orders to identify a planet suitable for creating more androids. When Spock questions the Kirk-android's orders, it repeats the insult Kirk had used. Spock, realizing that this is not Kirk, forms a security team to follow the Kirk-android back down to Exo-III. When it reaches the planet, the Kirk-android encounters Andrea, thinking it is the real Kirk, destroys him when he refuses to kiss her.
The real Kirk convinces Ruk that Korby is a threat to his existence. Ruk begins to recall the clash between the "Old Ones" and the androids that led to his civilization's demise centuries ago. Korby enters, and Ruk confronts him, but Korby destroys Ruk with a phaser. Shortly afterward, in a struggle with Kirk, the skin of Korby's hand is torn, revealing that he is also an android.
It is now revealed that Korby, dying of frostbite, had transferred his mind to an android body. He begs Chapel to believe that he is still the same man, but Chapel is repelled by what he has done to himself. Andrea, realizing she loves Korby, kisses him, and in despair, Korby fires Andrea's weapon between the embracing pair, destroying them both.
Spock arrives with the security force, but finds that the crisis has passed. When Spock inquires about Dr. Korby's whereabouts, Kirk replies, "Dr. Korby was never here." Chapel decides to stay on with the Enterprise and finish out her tour of duty. Spock tells Kirk about his dismay of using the term "half-breed" to warn that something was wrong. The captain says he will remember this should he find himself in a "similar situation."

Production
The episode was written by Robert Bloch, but received rewrites during shooting by Gene Roddenberry. The director of the second pilot "Where No Man Has Gone Before", James Goldstone, was hired to direct this episode, but due to problems with the script, shooting went two days over schedule and Goldstone was not re-hired.Sherry Jackson, who plays the android woman Andrea, said that they had a censor on set to make sure that her costume fully covered her breasts and that side cleavage was not visible. She also said of William Shatner, "I must say when he kissed me on screen, he really kissed me!" and that Shatner's chest had to be shaved for his nude scenes in the android machine because Gene Roddenberry felt that Captain Kirk would not be hairy.Reference to the works of H. P. Lovecraft was briefly made in Bloch's script, with its mention of "the Old Ones" and the look of the trapezoidal doors in the caverns.

Reception
Zack Handlen of The A.V. Club gave the episode a "B+" rating, noting that the "repetitive plotting" took away any real sense of threat and that without Spock or McCoy to play off, Kirk's character is less interesting.

See also
Ship of Theseus
Allegiance (Star Trek: The Next Generation)
Redshirt (stock character)