Passage 1:
Avoca Beach, New South Wales
Avoca Beach is a coastal suburb of the Central Coast region of New South Wales, Australia, about 95 kilometres (59 mi) north of Sydney. Avoca Beach is primarily a residential suburb, Avoca Beach is also a popular tourist destination. Avoca Beach is known for its surfing and state (regional) surf competitions. Avoca Beach village has a variety of restaurants and cafes as well as a post office, newsagent, pharmacy and mini-mart. Avoca Beach also has a historic cinema, a hotel, bowling club, motel and caravan park. It is located within the Central Coast Council local government area.
This suburb is unrelated to the NSW Southern Highlands suburb of Avoca, New South Wales, except in name only.

Geography
Avoca Beach is located on the Tasman Sea 17 kilometres (11 mi) east-southeast of the Gosford central business district, and about halfway between Newcastle and Sydney, being about 95 kilometres (59 mi) from each. It is bordered to the north by the Bulbararing Lagoon, to the west by Saltwater Creek and to the east by the ocean.

History
The area was originally inhabited by the Darkinjung & Awabakal Aboriginal people. "Avoca" is an Irish name meaning "great estuary" or "where the river meets the sea", and is also the name of a town in County Wicklow, Ireland.On 4 January 1830, 640 acres (259 ha) of land in the area were promised to Irish army officer John Moore. However, the official deeds were not issued until 30 September 1839, due to the difficulty in surveying the land. He built a house opposite Bulbararing Lake (now known as Avoca Lake) and planted vines, cereals and fruit trees. He left the area in 1857 for the Victorian goldfields. In the late 19th century, Tom Davis leased the area in order to exploit local timber, which was transported by tram to a mill at Terrigal via what is now Tramway Road in North Avoca.

In the 1950s, commercial buildings began to be built and populated, including bakery, service station, butchery, mini mart, caravan park and the Avoca Beach Picture Theatre.
Residential development in Avoca Beach began during the 20th century, and the area subsequently became a popular holiday retreat with wealthy residents of Sydney's North Shore.In February 2010, following the proposal to scuttle the frigate HMAS Adelaide off the beach as a dive wreck in late March, a resident action group was formed to protest against this. The group claims that the wreck will negatively affect surf conditions, tides, and littoral sand drift, and is concerned over the thoroughness of inspection and removal of dangerous materials and chemicals from the former warship, with the chance that marine life and people could be poisoned. An appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal three days before the planned scuttling date of 27 March led to a postponement of the plan until the residents' claims were investigated. The decision from the Tribunal, in favor of the project going ahead after further cleanup work, was handed down on 15 September 2010, and despite further attempts to delay, Adelaide was scuttled on 13 April 2011.

Demographics
At the ABS 2016 census, Avoca Beach had a population of 4,584 people. 76.4% of people were born in Australia. The next most common country of birth was England at 8.9%. 90.9% of people only spoke English at home. The most common responses for religion in Avoca Beach were No Religion 34.0%, Catholic 22.5% and Anglican 19.9%.Avoca Beach residents had a median age of 41, compared with the median of 42 for the Central Coast local government area. Median individual incomes in Avoca Beach were above average for the region — $764 per week compared with $600 per week. The 2016 Census reported 1,527 occupied private dwellings, of which 83.3% were separate houses, and the median monthly housing loan repayment of $2,167 was well above the regional average of $1,750.
In 2020, Avoca Beach's median house price was $1,150,000 versus $940,000 for the Central Coast region.

Education
Avoca Beach has a state primary school, which first opened in 1935. The suburb is within Kincumber High School's catchment area.

Politics
At federal level, Avoca Beach is within the Division of Robertson. In the Federal election of May 2022 it was won by Gordon Reid of the Australian Labor Party, previously held for nine years by Lucy Wicks of the Liberal Party of Australia.
In the New South Wales Legislative Assembly, Avoca Beach is within the electorate of Terrigal, currently held by Adam Crouch of the Liberal Party.
Polling place statistics are presented below from the Avoca Beach polling place in the elections leading up to and including the 2019 federal and state elections as indicated.

Gallery
Passage 2:
Hamlyn Terrace, New South Wales
Hamlyn Terrace is a suburb of the Central Coast region of New South Wales, Australia. It is part of the Central Coast Council local government area. The suburb was formerly part of Warnervale and is part of the Warnervale development precinct. The suburb is split between two governmental wards in the Central Coast Council governmental area, the northern part is in the Budgiewoi ward and the rest is in the Wyong ward.
Passage 3:
Woy Woy Bay, New South Wales
Woy Woy Bay is a suburb located in the Central Coast region of New South Wales, Australia, as part of the Central Coast Council local government area. Most of the suburb's area belongs to the Brisbane Water National Park, although a small community on Woy Woy Bay (part of Brisbane Water) containing a community hall, public reserve and wharf is also located within the suburb. Woy Woy Bay is commonly used by boaters on the weekend because of the open expanses of the bay. The main thoroughfare is Taylor Street.

Notable residents
John Della Bosca (1956–), former politician: New South Wales Legislative Council 1999–2010.
Belinda Neal (1963–), former politician: Australian House of Representatives (2007–2010); New South Wales Legislative Council (1994–1998) and Gosford City Council Alderman (1992–1994).
Passage 4:
Phegans Bay, New South Wales
Phegans Bay () is a suburb within the local government area of the Central Coast Council on the Central Coast of New South Wales, Australia.
Phegans Bay is located 6 kilometres (4 mi) west of Woy Woy between Brisbane Water National Park and Woy Woy Inlet.
Passage 5:
Umina Beach, New South Wales
Umina Beach ( you-MY-nə) is a suburb within the Central Coast Council local government area on the Central Coast of New South Wales, Australia. Umina Beach is situated 85 kilometres (53 mi) north of Sydney and 111 kilometres (69 mi) south of Newcastle.
Umina Beach is locally known on the Central Coast as being on 'The Peninsula' (or 'Woy Woy Peninsula'). A natural peninsula that includes the towns of Umina Beach, Woy Woy, Blackwall, Booker Bay and Ettalong Beach. The main street, West Street, is the retail centre of The Peninsula with key national brands represented through Coles, Woolworths, Aldi and Bunnings.
Moving from north to south, Umina Beach begins where Woy Woy and Blackwall end: at Veron Road and Gallipoli Avenue.
Umina Beach is the most populated suburb on the Central Coast.

Geography
Umina Beach has one unbroken sand shoreline that has been divided in name only: Umina Beach (south western section) and Ocean Beach (north eastern section). Both beaches have their own Surf Life Saving Club (refer to Sports Clubs section). The only other type of shoreline is located at Umina Point (Mt Ettalong), a Hawkesbury Sandstone headland that adjoins the south western end of Umina Beach.
Umina Beach is geographically located on the north side of Broken Bay at the river mouth of Hawkesbury River. The formation of Umina Beach and 'The Peninsula' is due to sand deposition that has been influenced by (and not limited to) climatic conditions, soil-binding flora, Hawkesbury Sandstone formations (e.g.; Box Head, Barrenjoey and Umina Point), wave patterns and tidal amplitude from the Tasman Sea, Hawkesbury River and Brisbane Water.

History
The word "Umina" was derived from the Australian Aboriginal word meaning Place of sleep.The Woy Woy and Umina district was home to the Guringai Australian Aboriginal tribe. This tribe stretched from the north side of Port Jackson, north through Pittwater, Broken Bay and Brisbane Water, to the southern end of Lake Macquarie.European entry to the region was first recorded in March 1788 when Governor Arthur Phillip landed with a party at Ettalong Beach.
In June 1789, a more thorough investigation of Brisbane Water was conducted. A rest stop was made at Ettalong Beach before the group passed through 'The Rip' (a dangerous passage leading into Brisbane Water). On return, the party camped at Ettalong Beach before sailing to Dangar Island in the Hawkesbury River.The first land subdivision occurred in 1914 which led to the current commercial and residential centre. Umina Beach celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2014.

Schools
Umina Beach is served by two public schools, Umina Public School (primary school) and Brisbane Water Secondary College (high school).Opened on 3 February 1956, Umina Public School's population approximates 800 students and 50 staff. It currently has 29 classes from kindergarten to year 6.

Business
Umina Beach town centre has been represented by the Peninsula Chamber of Commerce since the late 1980s. It is affiliated with the NSW Business Chamber. The town centre is serviced by Woolworths, Coles, Bunnings Hardware, Aldi Supermarkets and McDonald's, along with a number of local shops, takeaway restaurants and cafes, including the multi-award-winning Bremen Patisserie on West street. The town is also serviced by a number of medical and specialist practices, the Central Coast Council Library, and two service stations.

Transport Links
Umina Beach is well serviced by regular bus services (Busways) with connections to Woy Woy Rail Station and Gosford. The town centre is easily accessed with an efficient grid system of connecting roads with primary access from Ocean Beach Road, West Street and Barrenjoey Road.
Substantial car parking facilities adjacent to the town centre contribute to its success as a retail hub.

Media
Community Papers:

Peninsula Community Access News, fortnightly free distribution within the 2256 and 2257 postcode areas.
Central Coast Express Advocate, published by News Limited's Cumberland Courier Newspapers, is distributed free every Wednesday & Friday.
Central Coast Sun Weekly was last published on 30 April 2009.Radio Broadcasting:
Umina Beach is locally serviced by the national public broadcaster, Australian Broadcasting Corporation, via ABC Local Radio 2BL/T 92.5 FM.
Commercial licences covering Umina Beach are:
Analogue FM and AM signals can be received from Sydney and Newcastle. As a result, Umina Beach is located within the most saturated radio market in Australia.
As of August 2010, there was no launch date known for Digital Radio services for the Central Coast.

Sports fields
Umina Oval, located at the southern end of Melbourne Avenue, is the home ground for four pitch team sports: Soccer, Rugby league, Cricket and Tennis.McEvoy Oval, located at the western end of McEvoy Avenue, is used for Track and Field Athletics, Touch Football and Cricket.

Sports clubs
Club Umina RSL Bowls Club is located in Melbourne Avenue, Umina Beach, within the Club Umina complex. Membership is available to ex and existing Servicemen of the Australian Defence Force and its allies who are financial members of both Club Umina and either Full or Associate Members of Merrylands RSL Club Sub-Branch.
Ocean Beach Malibu Club.
Ocean Beach Surf Life Saving Club is located at the southern end of Trafalgar Avenue, Umina Beach.
Ocean Beach Surfers Association.
Umina Beach "Bunnies" Rugby League Football Club is based at Umina Oval and play on the Col Gooley Field. The club is affiliated with the Central Coast Division of Country Rugby League (refer also to Country Rugby League) within the New South Wales Rugby League. The Bunnies team sheet has included Australian Kangaroos experience: Mark Geyer in 1993 and Cliff Lyons as Captain-Coach in 2001.
Umina Boardriders.
Umina "Bunnies" Junior Rugby League Football Club is based at Umina Oval and play on the Col Gooley Field. The club is affiliated with the Central Coast Division Junior Rugby League which is part of the Central Coast Division of Country Rugby League (refer also to Country Rugby League) within the New South Wales Rugby League.
Umina Beach "Bunnies" Netball Club are emotionally linked to Umina Junior Rugby League Football Club and do not have a physical presence in Umina Beach. The club conducts committee meetings at Woy Woy Leagues Club, Blackwall Road, Woy Woy, has a postal address in Ettalong Beach and plays in the Woy Woy Peninsula Netball Associations competition, located in Lagoon Street, Ettalong Beach.
Umina Beach Surf Life Saving Club is located at the southern end of Ocean Beach Road, Umina Beach.
Umina "Devils" Cricket Club is based at Umina Oval and has 2 cricket fields. The main cricket field, Field 1, is located on the eastern side of the oval, on Col Gooley Field, and has multiple grass pitches. Field 2 is located on the western side of the oval and has one artificial cricket pitch. The club caters for both senior and junior players from 5 years of age.
The Umina cup is an annual father's vs sons soccer game at Umina beach holiday park. This game has been played 4 times and has been won by the sons all 4 times. The most famous ground is sand field as there has been 3 of the 4 games played their.
Umina United "Eagles" Soccer Club is based at Umina Oval. The club caters for both senior and junior players from 5 years of age. The club is affiliated with Central Coast Football.
Woy Woy Peninsula Little Athletics Centre is based at McEvoy Oval.  The club is affiliated with Central Coast Little Athletics. The club caters for junior athletes from 6 years of age.Umina Beach is known as the home of "Upball"

Community Groups
Umina Community Group– The Umina Community Group is committed to improving Umina Beach by providing a unified voice to lobby the Central Coast Council and government bodies. Umina Beach is a growing community, along with its many visitors, this means improvements to local infrastructure and services in Umina Beach and Ocean Beach are essential to allow Umina Beach to thrive as a modern coastal community.
Umina Beach Men's Shed– The Men's Shed is a place where members of the community of all different life experiences come together at their own pace, share skills, swap ideas, solve problems and be involved in projects for the benefit of the community.

Notable residents
Belinda Emmett (1974–2006), actress and singer, grew up in Umina Beach
Mark Geyer (born 1967), rugby league player and radio host
James Harrison OAM (born 1936), Anti-D Vaccine blood donor
Dane Searls (1988–2011), BMX rider
Eric Worrell MBE (1924–1987), zoologist and writer
Passage 6:
Shelly Beach, New South Wales
Shelly Beach is a coastal suburb of the Central Coast region of New South Wales, Australia, located east of Tuggerah Lake and bordering the Pacific Ocean south of The Entrance. It is part of the Central Coast Council local government area. It is 66 km south of Newcastle & 93 km north of Sydney.  Shelly Beach is considered one of the most popular surfing beaches on the Central Coast.
Shelly Beach Golf Club (previously Tuggerah Lakes Gold Club) is an 18-hole golf course located at the eastern end of Shelly Beach Road, overlooking Shelly Beach. It was formally established in 1930, originally being located at Killarney Vale until 1954 when it moved to its present location.
Within the suburb there is the Shelly Beach Surf Club and the Shelly Beach Fossils soccer club.

Transportation
Red Bus Services operates routes through Shelly Beach (11, 12, 21, 22, 23).  Bus 21 operates from The Entrance North to Gosford regularly.

Notable people
Nikki Garrett – golfer
Banjo Paterson – poet

Accommodation
Shelly Beach Cabins
Bluewater Resort
Sun Valley Tourist Park
Passage 7:
Magenta, New South Wales
Magenta () is a coastal location of the Central Coast region of New South Wales, Australia. It is part of the Central Coast Council local government area, and contains a significant portion of the Wyrrabalong National Park.
Magenta is a relatively new area to be developed for residence, with the suburb gazetted in 1991. Previously it was the location for rutile mining and as the garbage tip for The Entrance, New South Wales. The location is traversed south–north by Wilfred Barrett Drive linking The Entrance and Toukley, named after a Wyong Shire President. The road was designated part of the Central Coast Highway in 2006.

Magenta Shores
The Magenta Shores Golf Resort consists of an 18-hole golf course, private housing and a resort.
Passage 8:
Gorokan, New South Wales
Gorokan is a suburb of the Central Coast region of New South Wales, Australia. It is part of the Central Coast Council local government area. The word "Gorokan" means "The Morning Dawn" from the language of the Awabakal (an Aboriginal tribe). There are two schools in the area, Gorokan Public School and Gorokan High School. Electricity was first brought to the area as a part of a £42,000 programme for electricity reticulation under the Brisbane Water County Council.
Located on the shores of Lake Tuggerah, Gorokan has long been a holiday destination with the Quoy family first buying land in the area in 1923 where they built and rented a series of holiday homes. Other families such as the Gedlings (by way of Gordon and Margaret Gedling) built a holiday house on the Gorokan waterfront in 1956.
Passage 9:
Kulnura, New South Wales
Kulnura () is a suburb of the Central Coast region of New South Wales, Australia, located north of Mangrove Mountain along George Downes Drive. It is within Central Coast Council local government area. Kulnura's name is an Aboriginal word meaning "in sight of the sea" or "up in the clouds", it was named in 1914 by a meeting of the early pioneers Messrs Archibold, Collins, Gatley, Penn, Young, Williams and Gibson. Its population of approximately 600 people rely mostly on the town's fruit and cattle industries for income, however many commute to regional centres of Gosford, Wyong and even to Sydney for work. It is also home to the biggest catchment area on the Central Coast, Mangrove Creek Dam which has a capacity of 190 000 ML, and has a free tourist kiosk on the site.  "Mangrove Mountain Bottlers Pty Ltd" bottle still water at their plant at Kulnura, as well as for private label mass-retailers, such as 7–11.
Another one of Kulnura's attractions is the Paintball Place, which holds paintball skirmishes for people over 16.

District
Kulnura extends from the intersection of Bloodtree Road and George Downes Drive in the south, to the Great Northern Road in the north, to include the Mangrove Creek reservoir in the west, to down Bumble Hill Road in the east and to Red Hill Road in the southeast. Map of Kulnura in Google Maps
Kulnura General Store-café, petrol station and a bottle shop are located just opposite Kulnura Hall at the intersection of Greta Road with George Downes Drive.
Kulnura's One Stop convenience store is also a popular resting place for passing motorcyclists and tourists.
Kulnura Public School is situated at 9 Williams Road.

Festival
Every year Kulnura is host to the Bloodtree Festival, which is a celebration of life in the Mangrove Mountain area. It has been running for the past five years at Kulnura Oval, adjacent to Kulnura Hall.
Passage 10:
Microwave Jenny
Microwave Jenny is an Australian pop/folk/jazz duet that consists of Tessa Nuku on vocals and Brendon Boney on guitar and vocals. They both have Indigenous backgrounds with Brendon having been born and raised in Wagga Wagga, and Tessa having been born in Ulladulla, New South Wales before moving to and growing up in Umina Beach, New South Wales Brendon was the singing voice for the character Willie in film Bran Nue Dae. The phrase 'Microwave Jenny' comes from the 1997 film The Castle. The duo are married and have a daughter. Brendon has a solo alternative, hip/hop project called The Magpie Swoop.

Live performance
The band play live in multiple formats either as an Acoustic Duet, Trio, Quartet or full band. The duo feature heavily on the Australian music festival circuit with notable live performances including Bluesfest, Woodford Folk Festival, Peats Ridge Festival and Nannup Music Festival.They also supported Thirsty Merc on their 2011 national tour of Australia.

Influences
Microwave Jenny have cited James Taylor, Janis Ian, Bill Withers and Van Morrison as musical influences.

Awards and nominations
They were recipients of the 2009 Peter Garrett Breathrough Grant. Brendon won an APRA Professional Development Award in 2011 for his songwriting and composing. In 2009, Microwave Jenny was nominated for a Deadly Award for Most Promising New Artist but did not win.

Discography
They have released two EPs

Summer
1. "Mellow" – 3:59
2. "Mr Man in the Moon" – 3:47
3. "I'll Never Learn" – 5:02
4. "Summer" – 3:35

Crazy, Crazy Things
1. "Stuck on the Moon" – 3:06
2. "Homemade Lemonade" – 3:52
3. "Lyin" – 3:18
4. Locked in the Closet" – 3:54