Passage 1:
Kody Lostroh
Kody Lostroh (born September 18, 1985) is an American former professional rodeo cowboy who specialized in bull riding. He was the 2009 Professional Bull Riders (PBR) world champion.

Background
Kody Lostroh was born on September 18, 1985 in Longmont, Colorado. Lostroh watched a video of Cheyenne Frontier Days so many times that his mother Dena Schlutz signed him up to ride at the Boulder County Fair in 1993, when he was seven years old. He won a Little Britches Rodeo National Bull Riding title in 2003 and the Colorado High School Rodeo Bull Riding Championship three consecutive years. Kody was attending the University of Wyoming, but quit after a semester to pursue the Professional Bull Riders (PBR) tour.

Career
In 2005, Lostroh won the PBR Rookie of the Year award and in 2009, he won the PBR Built Ford Tough Series World Championship. He qualified for the PBR World Finals 10 consecutive times (2005 to 2014). Lostroh suffered multiple injuries throughout his career. For example, Lostroh injured his riding hand in January 2014 and missed most of the first half of that season. In August 2017, he was considering retirement to spend more time with his two daughters, when he began experiencing significant health problems. He was eventually diagnosed with a tumor wrapped around his carotid artery, requiring surgery. He went back to the PBR but still had some reservations.On March 29, 2018, Lostroh announced his retirement from bull riding.In 2022, Lostroh became the assistant coach to head coach Cord McCoy of the Oklahoma Freedom; one of eight bull riding teams of the PBR’s Team Series, which debuted that year. In September of that year, the Oklahoma Freedom won the event at Cowboy Days in Winston-Salem, North Carolina; the hometown event of rival team, the Carolina Cowboys. The very next weekend, the Freedom won their own hometown event at Freedom Fest in Oklahoma City. They were the first team to win their hometown event. The Freedom ended up finishing in fourth place at the conclusion of the inaugural PBR Team Series season.

Personal life
He raises bucking bulls in Ault, Colorado, at the Shield of Faith Cattle Company. As of 2016, Lostroh and his wife, Candace, who is a barrel racer, live in Ault, Colorado, with their two daughters.
Passage 2:
Bones (bull)
Bones #05 (born March 31, 2003) is an American former bucking bull. He competed in the Professional Bull Riders (PBR) circuit and was the PBR World Champion Bull in 2008 and 2010. Two other bulls, Dillinger and Smooth Operator, have also won the title two times. Three other bulls, Little Yellow Jacket, Bushwacker, and Bruiser won the award three times. In 2011, the year after Bones won the 2010 World Champion Bull title, when he was 7 years old, his owner, Tom Teague announced his retirement from the sport. Bones lives on Teague's ranch in his retirement. In 2014, the bull was inducted into the PBR Brand of Honor.

Background
Bones was born on March 31, 2003. Bones grew up at Teague Bucking Bulls in Graham, North Carolina. Teague was the 2006 PBR Co-Stock Contractor of the Year.  Bones got his name when one of Tom Teague's workers described him as a "bag of bones." Lee Holt said, "He was the poorest little thing." He was too small to take care of himself with the other calves so they moved him to be alone in the barn. Through the years, he grew into a brawny 1,550 pounds (700 kg) pounds. He is a black bull with a white face.Bones' sire was 263 Bone Collector. Bone Collector's jumping prowess while bucking was well known. Bones' paternal grandsire was 64 Psycho. His mother is a daughter of Whitewater, a well-known breeding bull. Whitewater's sire was No. 34 Oscar's Velvet, the 1983 Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association (PRCA) Bucking Bull of the Year. Oscar's Velvet was the son of Oscar, a ProRodeo Hall of Fame bucking bull. Bones is also a half-brother of the retired and highly ranked bucking bull Troubadour owned by Julio Moreno.Teague raised Bones and retained full ownership of the bull throughout his bucking career and into retirement. This was not the first time Teague had ownership in a World Champion Bull, as he also had part ownership in world champion bulls Little Yellow Jacket, Mossy Oak Mudslinger, and Big Bucks, including gaining full ownership of Little Yellow Jacket for most of his retirement. This was, however, the first time Teague retained full ownership in a bull that he raised himself. He intended to keep Teague Bucking Bulls continuing in that direction, but decided in April 2014 to leave the stock contractor business. However, in an interview with the PBR, Teague stated that he would continue his position on the board of directors and aid them in "taking the sport to the next level."

Career
One of the ways that Teague exercised Bones was in a circular sand pit that he had made, where he installed a type of hot walker sometimes used for horses. Once an animal was inside, there were walls that moved around in a circular direction, forcing the bull to walk in between them. Teague compared working in deep sand to walking on the beach – it took more effort than walking on hard ground.Bones bucked in the PBR, mostly on the Built Ford Tough Series (BFTS), the elite series of the circuit, for four seasons, but only three were complete seasons, as he only bucked at one BFTS event in 2007. Two-time PBR World Champion bull rider Justin McBride stated that Bones is the "real deal". He said Bones is one of only two bulls he got on more than once who bucked him off each time—he never got a qualified ride on Bones. McBride first got on the bull at an event at Columbus, Ohio, in 2008 when Bones was a fairly unknown five-year-old. Bones bucked him off.

2008 title
Bones qualified for the PBR World Finals his first time in 2008. McBride again picked him in round two and Bones bucked him off faster than in their first meeting. According to McBride, Bones had gotten better and "handed him his hat". Bones bucked off all three riders at his first finals. Bones made what became his trademark set of bucking moves, going up high and bringing the rider over his shoulder and then down. In 4.7 seconds, McBride bucked off Bones. "It had been a long time since a bull had treated me that way," McBride said. For the other two riders, in round four Zack Brown bucked off Bones in 2.8 seconds, and in the final round 2008 World Champion Guilherme Marchi bucked off in 4 seconds. Bones finished the evening with bull scores of 47 points, 46 points, and 47.25 points. His bull score of 47.25 points was a career best. Bulls are scored from 1 to 50 points, half of the total score. The bull rider gets the other half of the score; together it totals up to 100. These bull scores were high enough to win the 2008 World Champion Bull title.

Betting events
An event between Bones and J.B. Mauney on February 13, 2009, was billed as the best bull against the best bull rider. Tom Teague claimed that "no cowboy wearing spurs could stay on his star bull for the eight-second count", resulting in extensive comments from fans and stock contractors on the PBR site. The event took place that night as part of the PBR Express Classic event at the Ford Center, now known as Chesapeake Energy Arena, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Teague pitted his unridden bull Bones head to head against the current world standings leader and 2013 world champion with a prize of $20,000. Bones had been 13–0 on the BFTS circuit so far. Bones had bucked off, or "dusted", both McBride and 2002 World Champion Ednei Caminhas twice. He had dusted Marchi three times, and the last time, Marchi lost the opportunity to win $20,000; Teague bet that much against Marchi. Since Mauney was the world standings leader, he felt "slighted" that he was not offered an opportunity at Bones when Marchi got two. When Marchi fell the third time, Mauney asked Teague for a turn. Mauney would earn $20,000 if he became the first to make a successful eight-second qualifying ride on Bones, while Teague bet he would hit the dust in four seconds. Mauney succeeded. He rode Bones for a qualifying time and scored 93.5 points out of a maximum of 100. Although there was a great deal of hype about the event that weekend, Mauney stated that he just did what he did with every bull, "kept my hand shut and held on". Teague said he was happy to see Mauney prove why he is the number one bull rider in the world. That score of 93.5 points became the highest-combined score of Bones' career.In February 2009, stock contractor Chad Berger made it known in an interview that he reached his fill of hearing from Teague and others how great Bones is. Berger owned a rival bull named Big Tex, who he considered better than Bones. The then-current Stock Contractor of the Year challenged Teague to a contest for $25,000. Teague countered for $50,000 and Berger accepted. The match-up pitted the two bulls in the championship round of the Enterprise Rent-a-Car Invitational. World champion cowboy Ty Murray attested that they were both great bulls, and the outcome might depend on which bull rider drew which bull. The round took place in the Scottrade Center in St. Louis, Missouri, on Sunday, March 1, 2009. NBCSN's program Versus broadcast it in prime time. It was the first time the PBR sponsored a contest like this. No other bull vs bull challenge earned an owner such a large sum of money before. Zack Brown drew Big Tex, and 2004 World Champion Mike Lee drew Bones. Both men bucked off. It was an extremely close match, with Big Tex narrowly winning with a bull score of 46 to Bones' 45.5, giving Berger some relief. Berger received more relief later that year when a bull he owned an interest in, Code Blue, won that year's World Champion Bull title.

2010 title
PBR Livestock Director Cody Lambert believed that Bones was matched up with the best riders, and he proved he was their equal or better. Due to his bull scores, athleticism, and buck off percentages, he distinguished himself from the other bulls. In the 2010 PBR World Finals, Lambert did not hesitate to praise Bones when the bull won the World Champion Bull title again, this time against the favorite, Bushwacker. According to Lambert, it was surprising Bones won, but it was not a complete upset.At the finals, Bones first bucked off Mauney, who had ridden him back in 2009. Mauney only lasted four seconds. Bones was given a 45.25 bull score. Some argued his score was slightly lower due to the judges foreseeing a qualified ride from Mauney. Marchi, who was up next, tied his hand down too far, according to fellow bull rider J.W. Hart. This prevented Marchi from keeping up with Bones' change of direction; Bones bucked him off easily in two seconds, and was scored 47.25 which won him the World Champion Bull title. McBride felt winning two titles under different circumstances was impressive: the first time because he was an unknown, and the second time because other he was an underdog due to other bulls like Bushwacker who were favored to win.

Summary
Bones bucked on the PBR tour a total of 45 times. He was ridden for a qualified ride only five times, giving him an 88.89% buckoff percentage at all levels. Bones bucked on the BFTS 34 times. Of those, he was ridden for a qualified ride four times, for an 88.24% buckoff percentage in the BFTS. Bones ranked 14th overall in the BFTS as of April 2017 according to Probullstats. Out of his four years on the BFTS, he qualified for the PBR World Finals three times. His average bull score was 45.56 points for all four years. Most do not take his first year on the BFTS seriously, since he only bucked one time that year, which was 2007. He had three scores over 90 points. On February 18, 2009, in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Mauney rode him for 93.50 points. On October 30, 2009, in Las Vegas, Nevada, at the PBR World Finals, Pete Farley rode him for 93.25 points. And, on January 8, 2010, at Madison Square Garden, in New York City, Shane Proctor rode him for 91.25 points. Scores of 90 or higher points are tracked in the PBR's 90 Point Club. Mauney's ride did not count because it was a special match staged to top off the event, and not part of the BFTS circuit.Bones was active from 2006 until 2010 at all levels. He won the World Champion Bull title in 2008 and 2010. He also won the Bull of the World Finals title both those same years. He, Dillinger, and Smooth Operator are the only two-time World Champion Bull title winners; Bones was the first bull to win multiple World Champion Bull titles in non-consecutive years. Only three other bulls won the title three times: Bushwacker, Little Yellow Jacket, and Bruiser. Their performances and the number of titles won is part of the reason these bulls (except Smooth Operator and Bruiser) were each selected to receive the Professional Bull Riders Heroes and Legends Celebration: Brand of Honor. This honor was inaugurated in 2011 and first given to Little Yellow Jacket. Bones was the 2014 inductee.

Retirement and legacy
Teague retired Bones after the 2010 BFTS season when he was 7 years old. He announced it at the beginning of the 2011 BFTS season. Bones was still in the peak of his career at the time. Four years later, in 2014, the PBR announced that they were honoring Bones with the Heroes and Legends Celebration: Brand of Honor. Bones was the fourth recipient to receive the Brand of Honor. The PBR created the Brand of Honor in 2011 to honor exemplary bulls in the sport. The ceremony usually takes place during the PBR World Finals, currently held at T-Mobile Arena on the Las Vegas Strip. Lambert was not surprised Bones received the Brand of Honor. He felt that Bones was one of the finest bulls ever to compete in the PBR. Lambert also felt the honor was appropriate because otherwise it is difficult for people to recall great bulls once they are not around. He compared Bones to bulls like Bushwacker, Voodoo Child, and even famous bulls of the past such as Mr. T and 105 of Dell's Hall.As far as retiring Bones if he won the 2010 title, Teague said he had made up his mind to do it. McBride and Lambert both believed Teague wanted to see Bones go out while he was still on top. Teague also didn't want to chance Bones getting injured after he had already got two titles. Teague said, "What more can you ask for out of a bull? I couldn't be happier with him." Some think Bones could have matched Little Yellow Jacket's three title record. Teague has stated that he is happy with the way things ended. Bones is retired at Teague's ranch in Graham, North Carolina.Two months before the PBR World Finals in 2014, McBride said Bones was one of the most gifted bulls he had been on, and was even harder to ride than World Champion Mossy Oak Mudslinger. At the time, Little Yellow Jacket was the solo holder of three World Champion titles, but McBride believed that Bones was more difficult to ride than Little Yellow Jacket. He compared Bones to other bulls that could yank a rider down to make them lose their seat like Rampage and Hollywood. Hearing of Bones receiving the Brand of Honor was no surprise to McBride, as he considered him one of the greats. That year, Bushwacker would win his third World Champion Bull title, and Lambert compared Bones to Bushwacker at the same stage of their bucking careers, noting that Bushwacker and Bones had a similar physicality and demeanor. "[Bones] excelled in all five categories: buck, kick, direction change, intensity and degree of difficulty." He could get his front feet 3 to 4 feet (0.91 to 1.22 m) in the air and then break over. He had a sense for knowing who was on his back. He performed at his best with the toughest riders. Lambert added that Bones was perhaps the second-best bull the PBR has seen. It is widely established that the PBR regards Bushwacker as the best bull they have ever seen.

Honors
2008 PBR World Champion Bull
2008 PBR Bull of the World Finals
2010 PBR World Champion Bull
2010 PBR Bull of the World Finals
2014 PBR Brand of Honor
Passage 3:
Colin Fleming (racing driver)
Colin Fleming (born April 27, 1984) is an American former racing driver & Formula 1 test driver who competed in the World Series by Renault 3.5, Formula Renault 2.0 Eurocup, and Formula Renault 2000 Germany with Jenzer Motorsport and Carlin Motorsport after a successful go-karting career, winning 10 North American and National Championships.

Racing career
A former member from the Red Bull Junior Team, Fleming finished 3rd in the Formula Renault 2.0 Eurocup in 2004 and was rookie of the year in the Formula Renault 2000 Germany also in that year. He raced against fellow American and Californian and future Formula One driver Scott Speed. In 2005, he switched to the Formula Renault 3.5 with Swiss team Jenzer Motorsport, despite three DNS in the first 3 and missing one race of that season he finished 13th with 34 points with a best finish of 3rd in the second race in the Bugatti Circuit in LeMans, France. In 2006, he joined Carlin where he finished 6th in the first race of the season in Zolder. Later that year, he finished 4th in Circuit de Monaco and 8th in both races in Istanbul Park, but left Carlin and the Red Bull Junior team after the latter. Red Bull replaced him with fellow Red Bull Junior Team member and future Formula One Champion Sebastian Vettel.After leaving Red Bull, he returned to the United States to complete in the Atlantic Championship mid-season.

Personal life
He is currently a Executive Vice President of Marketing with Salesforce.

Complete motorsports results
American Open-Wheel racing results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position, races in italics indicate fastest race lap)

2003 Barber Dodge Pro Series (Rookie of the Year, 5th in championship)
2004 German Formula Renault – 2nd in the Championship
2004 European Formula Renault – 3rd in the Championship
World Series by Renault 3.5
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)
Passage 4:
Jan Bull
Jan Bull (7 January 1927 – 16 December 1985) was a Norwegian author and theater instructor. Born in Paris,  he was son of the Norwegian poet Olaf Bull and the grandson of author Jacob Breda Bull.

Bibliography
13 poetry – poetry (1957).
Marianne – (1959)
Sommerfuglene (1960)
Den siste fuglen – poetry (1961)
Sodoma – poetry (1964)
En vanligvis godt underrettet kilde – poetry (1967)
Masker – poetry (1976)
Døden ville lese Dickens – novel (1981)

Awards
1981– Riksmål Society Literature Prize
Passage 5:
Buxtehude Bull
The Buxtehude Bull (German: Buxtehuder Bulle) is an award for youth literature, established in 1971 by Winfried Ziemann, a local book merchant from Buxtehude, a Hanseatic City located in the Hamburg Metropolitan Region. The town council took over the sponsorship of the award in 1981. The award is given annually to the best children's or young-adults' book published in German (either native language or translated) in the preceding year. The writer is presented with a small steel statue of the bull (German: Bulle)  Ferdinand, from the popular work The Story of Ferdinand by Munro Leaf, and also receives a monetary prize  of €5,000.

Awards
1971: Alexander Sutherland Neill, Die grüne Wolke
1972: Cili Wethekam, Tignasse, Kind der Revolution
1973: Tilman Röhrig, Thoms Bericht
1974: Gail Graham, Zwischen den Feuern
1975: Johanna Reiss, Und im Fenster der Himmel
1976: Jaap ter Haar, Behalt das Leben lieb
1977: Gudrun Pausewang, Die Not der Familie Caldera
1978: Leonie Ossowski, Stern ohne Himmel
1979: Michael Ende, Die unendliche Geschichte (The Neverending Story)
1980: Hermann Vinke, Das kurze Leben der Sophie Scholl
1981: Myron Levoy, Der gelbe Vogel (Alan and Naomi)
1982: Rudolf Frank, Der Junge, der seinen Geburtstag vergaß
1983: Gudrun Pausewang, Die letzten Kinder von Schewenborn (The Last Children of Schewenborn)
1984: Mildred D. Taylor, Donnergrollen hör mein Schrei'n
1985: Urs M. Fiechtner, Annas Geschichte
1986: Joan Lingard, Über die Barrikaden
1987: James Watson, Hinter vorgehaltener Hand
1988: Isolde Heyne, Sternschnuppenzeit
1989: Heidi Glade-Hassenmüller, Gute Nacht, Zuckerpüppchen
1990: Maria Seidemann, Rosalie
1991: Ursula Wölfel, Ein Haus für alle
1992: Mecka Lind, Manchmal gehört mir die ganze Welt
1993: Klaus Kordon, Der erste Frühling
1994: Katarina von Bredow, Ludvig meine Liebe
1995: Tonke Dragt, Turmhoch und meilenweit
1996: Jostein Gaarder, Durch einen Spiegel, in einem dunklen Wort (Through a Glass, Darkly)
1997: Ralf Isau, Das Museum der gestohlenen Erinnerungen
1998: Andreas Steinhöfel, Die Mitte der Welt
1999: John Marsden, Gegen jede Chance (Third Day, the Frost)
2000: Sherryl Jordan, Junipers Spiel
2001: David Grossman, Wohin du mich führst
2002: Hanna Jansen, Über tausend Hügel wandere ich mit dir
2003: Nancy Farmer, Das Skorpionenhaus (The House of the Scorpion)
2004: Rainer M. Schröder, Die Lagune der Galeeren
2005: Kevin Brooks, Lucas
2006: Stephenie Meyer, Bis(s) zum Morgengrauen (Twilight)
2007: Anne C. Voorhoeve, Liverpool Street
2008: Markus Zusak, Die Bücherdiebin (The Book Thief)
2009: Suzanne Collins, Die Tribute von Panem – Tödliche Spiele (The Hunger Games)
2010: Susan Beth Pfeffer, Die Welt, wie wir sie kannten
2011: Lauren Oliver, Delirium
2012: John Green, Das Schicksal ist ein mieser Verräter
2013: Christine Fehér, Dann mach ich eben Schluss
2014: David Safier, 28 Tage lang
2015: Victoria Aveyard, Die Farben des Blutes: Die rote Königin
2016: Tamara Ireland Stone, Mit anderen Worten: ich
2017: John Boyne, Der Junge auf dem Berg (The Boy at the Top of the Mountain)
2018: Amy Giles, Jetzt ist alles, was wir haben (Now Is Everything)
2019: Wendelin Van Draanen, Acht Wochen Wüste (Wild Bird)
2020: Alan Gratz, Vor uns das Meer. Drei Jugendliche, drei Jahrzehnte, eine Hoffnung (Refugee)
2021: Malene Sølvsten, Ansuz – Das Flüstern der Raben
Passage 6:
Balarama (elephant)
Balarama (c. 1956 – 7 May 2023) was the lead elephant of the Mysore Dasara procession and carried the idol of goddess Chamundeshwari on the fabled Golden Howdah thirteen times between 1999 and 2011. Balarama was a bull born about 1958 and was accompanied in the procession by other Dasara Elephants. Of the many (about 16) elephants participating, Balarama was one of the star attractions when he carried on his back the sacred idol of goddess Chamundeshwari in the 750 kilograms (1,650 lb) golden howdah on the auspicious 10th day of Dasara celebrations.

History
Balarama was captured in 1987 in the Kattepura forest near Somwarpet, in the Kodagu region of Karnataka. Balarama has taken part in the Dasara procession since 1994, carrying the golden howdah. A very silent bull (against the norm for elephants), he was said to be an introvert, and had to have special training so he could withstand the firing of cannons that occurs during the festival.He succeeded Drona as the carrier of the Golden Howdah.
Balarama was not the first choice to carry the Howdah after Drona. Elephant Arjuna, a 44-year-old bull weighing 5,600 kilograms (12,300 lb) was supposed to be the carrier of the howdah, but was sidelined for accidentally killing a Mahout. One day, Arjuna went to bathe in a river with elephant Bahadur and Bahadur's trainer Annayya. While crossing a road, the elephants were startled by a vehicle and in the chaos that ensued, the rider Annayya fell down to the ground, only to be stamped on the head by Arjuna. He was crushed to death. People opined that an elephant that had killed a man was unfit to carry the religious duties of Dasara. So Arjuna, while being as capable as Drona, was not given the honorable duty, though he did have the honour of carrying the Chinnada Ambari once before being replaced by Balarama. Balarama had been rested from the duty of carrying the Golden Howdah due to his reducing weight and has been succeeded by Arjuna. Balarama led the procession as the 'nishane aane' or the lead elephant.
Balarama's Mahout Sannappa once refused to mount Balarama after his family were stopped by the police from watching him ride during Dasara.
Balarama refused food given to him by anybody other than his Mahout. Balarama weighed about 4590 Kilograms and he conquered the hearts of human beings by his majestic looks and the silence that he possessed. He was looked after at the Morkal Elephant camp at Nagarahole national park and his previous mahout Sannappa has retired and his new master Thimma has taken over.
The 67-year-old elephant was critically ill and under the care of a veterinarians at the Bhimanakatte elephant camp in the Hunsur range of the Nagarhole park. Despite the efforts of the medical team, Balarama’s condition deteriorated. According to reports, Balarama had been recovering from an ulcer in his mouth but the veterinarian treating him suspected that he may have been suffering from tuberculosis. He died on 7 May 2023.

See also
List of individual elephants
Passage 7:
Justin Tranchita
Justin Chase Tranchita  (born June 22, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter, actor, and businessman. Born in Geneva, Illinois and raised in Princeton, Illinois. He achieved popularity by his recurring role on Game of Pawns and his music.

Life and career
Early life and career beginning
Justin was born to Joseph James Tranchita and Julee Ann Child in Geneva, Illinois, on June 22, 1981. His paternal grandfather was an immigrant from Marsala, Italy, while his mother was of Jewish and Irish ancestry. He has four elder siblings, Joe (born 1971), Julie (born 1974), Pam (born 1976) and Angie (born 1978) and four younger siblings, Jonathan (born 1983), Elliott (born 1990), Joshua (born 1995) and Marie (born 2000).
He was raised in Princeton, Illinois just past the Red Covered bridge on a farm with animals surrounded by corn fields. He attended Princeton High school and played football for the school but due to his parents religious beliefs he was pulled out of attendance and home schooled after his sophomore year. Tranchita went on several humanitarian trips as a boy taking him all over America and twice to Israel. After his parents divorced his senior year in high school Tranchita had a crisis of faith and left Princeton. He later told the Bureau County Republican that "It was kind of a long road out of Princeton but it was the best place a kid could grow up. " Justin received a music scholarship to Greenville College and attended in 1999. In 2000 he dropped out of college and relocated to Branson , Missouri where he met Don Williams brother of American singer Andy Williams and Robert Vinton son of American singer Bobby Vinton  who helped Justin take the leap into a career in music and television.

Television and music
Tranchita starred on the television series Game of Pawns which airs on the Discovery Channel globally. The series was filmed in 2013 by High Noon Entertainment and is based on the goings on in a pawn shop in Branson, Missouri. Justin is joined by Scott Velvet and Brian Roman in this television game show which continues to run as re-runs in the United States and around the world on Discovery networks.Recorded with producer and writer Steve Messer, the song "This is America" features lyrics about American politics. It first became noticed when the Ben Carson presidential campaign heard the song and decided to use it as their campaign song for 2016. Quickly after Ben Carson used the song it had commercial success by reaching number one on the Billboard Twitter Emerging Artist chart on November 28th, 2015 where it continued to stay on the chart for weeks. The song was controversial in nature and garnered mixed reviews, digg.com said it was "one of the worste campaign songs of all time." Dan Fallon of digg.com wrote "Props to Tranchita for almost getting the lyric "While governmental power tends to grow continuously" to not sound super awkward." Tranchita told The Guardian, "When I started to look into Ben Carson and what he stood for...people who have a faith – I identify with them because it does separate from people who do not.” Ben Carson personally thanked Justin for allowing him to use the song publicly in a statement to his Facebook followers, This is America returned to the number one spot again in 2016 after spending ten weeks on Billboards Emerging chart. This gave Tranchita a number one hit with the same song in two different years.

Discography
The Devil Song, (single)  (2012)
Cock of The Walk (2012)
This is America (single) (2015)
American Man 2016

Michigan State House Run
After the song "This is America" vaulted Tranchita into the political limelight he decided to run for the Michigan State House, district 32 in March of 2016. He was among Macomb County Republicans competing in state House races. Tranchita said the popularity of his song was responsible in part for his run, he told The Detroit News, "Millions of people have responded to [the song]... There's some angst, some anger, and people are feeling like their voices aren't heard. I feel that. I'm a blue-collar guy, not some elitist or crony that wants to be in the ruling class." After a very hard fought race Tranchita was narrowly defeated in his first ever political campaign by six percent in the August 2016 primary.
Passage 8:
Cock and Bull (book)
Cock and Bull is the title of a volume composed of two novellas by Will Self, which includes the stories Cock and Bull. The two stories are characterized by empty, emotionless, phatic sex; rape; cruelty; and violence. The book was originally published in 1992 by Bloomsbury.

Plot summaries
Cock
A woman grows a penis and then uses it to rape her tedious, alcoholic husband and his patronising, evangelical mentor from Alcoholics Anonymous. In the story's final twist, the woman comes into non-consensual contact with her violating member, and makes allusions to The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.

Bull
A sensitive rugby player-cum-writer for a small magazine grows a vagina behind his knee. His megalomaniacal general practitioner, having discovered the vagina during an examination, conceals it from Bull, telling him it was 'a burn and a wound', though later visits Bull at home, fixated on this popliteal yoni. The doctor, removing the bandages from the site, reveals the truth, and seduces Bull while he is traumatised and huddled beneath the sink.
Gender stereotypes are examined; much fun is made of modern literary criticism and its often clichéd takes on the gender debate.

Reviews
"In recounting such events, Mr. Self demonstrates an uncanny ability, similar to that displayed by Kafka in The Metamorphosis, to lend utterly absurd events an aura of verisimilitude by grounding the fantastic in the mundane. He possesses all those gifts a satiric writer might want: an eye for the telling detail, an ear for the pretensions of contemporary locution, an ability to write idiosyncratic prose that twinkles with cleverness and wit. Unfortunately, in this volume, these copious gifts are all too frequently put in the service of a misogynistic and ridiculously sophomoric vision. " Michiko Kakutani, The New York Times
Passage 9:
Will Self
William Woodard Self (born 26 September 1961) is an English author, journalist, political commentator and broadcaster. He has written 11 novels, five collections of shorter fiction, three novellas and nine collections of non-fiction writing. Self is currently Professor of Modern Thought at Brunel University London, where he teaches psychogeography.His 2002 novel Dorian, an Imitation was longlisted for the Booker Prize, and his 2012 novel Umbrella was shortlisted. His fiction is known for being satirical, grotesque and fantastical, and is predominantly set within his home city of London. His writing often explores mental illness, drug abuse and psychiatry.
Self is a regular contributor to publications including The Guardian, Harper's Magazine, The New York Times and the London Review of Books. He currently writes a column for the New Statesman, and he has been a columnist for the Observer, The Times, and the Evening Standard. His columns for Building Design on the built environment, and for the Independent Magazine on the psychology of place brought him to prominence as a thinker concerned with the politics of urbanism.
Self is a regular contributor to British television, initially as a guest on comic panel shows such as Have I Got News for You. In 2002, Self replaced Mark Lamarr on the BBC comedy panel show Shooting Stars  for two series, but was himself replaced by comedian Jack Dee when the programme returned in 2008.  He has since appeared on current affairs programmes such as Newsnight and Question Time. Self is a contributor to the BBC Radio 4 programme A Point of View, to which he contributes radio essays delivered in his familiar "lugubrious tones". In 2013, Self took part in discussions about becoming the inaugural BBC Radio 4 Writer-in-Residence, but later withdrew.

Early life
Self was born in Charing Cross Hospital and brought up in North London, between the suburbs of East Finchley and Hampstead Garden Suburb. His parents were Peter John Otter Self, Professor of Public Administration at the London School of Economics, and Elaine Rosenbloom, from Queens, New York, who worked as a publisher's assistant. His paternal grandfather was Sir Albert Henry Self. Self spent a year living in Ithaca in upstate New York.Self's parents separated when he was nine, and divorced when he was 18. Despite the intellectual encouragement given by his parents, he was an emotionally confused and self-destructive child, harming himself with cigarette ends and knives before beginning to experiment with drugs.Self was a voracious reader from a young age. When he was 10, he developed an interest in works of science fiction such as Frank Herbert's Dune and the works of J. G. Ballard and Philip K. Dick. Into his teenage years, Self claimed to have been "overawed by the canon", which stifled his ability to express himself. Self's use of drugs increased in step with his prolific reading. He started smoking cannabis at the age of 12, progressing by way of amphetamines, cocaine and LSD to heroin, which he started injecting at 18. Self struggled with mental health issues during this period, and aged 20 became a hospital outpatient.Self attended University College School, an independent school for boys in Hampstead. He later attended Christ's College, Finchley, from where he went to Exeter College, Oxford, reading Philosophy, Politics and Economics and graduated with a third class degree. At Oxford, he was editor of and frequent contributor to an underground left-wing student newspaper called Red Herring/Oxford Strumpet, copies of which are archived in the Bodleian Library.

Career
After graduating from Oxford, Self worked for the Greater London Council, including as a road sweeper, while residing in Brixton. He pursued a career as a cartoonist for the New Statesman and other publications and as a stand-up comedian. He moved to Gloucester Road around 1985. In 1986 he entered a treatment centre in Weston-super-Mare, where he claimed that his heroin addiction was cured. In 1989, "through a series of accidents", he "blagged" his way into running a small publishing company.The publication of his short story collection The Quantity Theory of Insanity brought him to public attention in 1991. Self was hailed as an original new talent by Salman Rushdie, Doris Lessing, Beryl Bainbridge, A. S. Byatt and Bill Buford. In 1993, he was nominated by Granta magazine as one of the 20 "Best Young British Novelists". Conversely, Self's second book, My Idea of Fun, was "mauled" by the critics.Self joined the Observer as a columnist in 1995. He gained negative publicity in 1997 when he was sent to cover the election campaign of John Major and was caught by a rival journalist using heroin on the Prime Minister's jet; he was fired as a result. At the time, he argued "I'm a hack who gets hired because I do drugs". He joined the Times as a columnist in 1997. In 1999 he left the Times to join the Independent on Sunday, which he left in 2002 for the Evening Standard.He has made many appearances on British television, especially as a panellist on Have I Got News for You and as a regular on Shooting Stars. Since 2008 Self has appeared five times on Question Time. He stopped appearing in Have I Got News for You, stating the show had become a pseudo-panel show. Between 2003 and 2006, he was a regular contributor to the BBC2 television series Grumpy Old Men.Since 2009, Self has written two alternating fortnightly columns for the New Statesman. The Madness of Crowds explores social phenomena and group behaviour, and in Real Meals he reviews high street food outlets. For a May 2014 article in The Guardian, he wrote: "the literary novel as an art work and a narrative art form central to our culture is indeed dying before our eyes", explaining in a July 2014 article that his royalty income had decreased "dramatically" over the previous decade. The July article followed the release of a study of the earnings of British authors that was commissioned by the Authors' Licensing and Collecting Society.Self is a professor of Modern Thought at Brunel University London. He was appointed in 2012.

Literary style
According to M. Hunter Hayes, Self has given his reason for writing as follows: "I don't write fiction for people to identify with and I don't write a picture of the world they can recognise. I write to astonish people." "What excites me is to disturb the reader's fundamental assumptions. I want to make them feel that certain categories within which they are used to perceiving the world are unstable."When he was ten, he developed an interest in works of science fiction such as Frank Herbert's Dune and those of J. G. Ballard and Philip K. Dick. Self admires the work of J. G. Ballard, Alasdair Gray and Martin Amis. He has said that he previously admired William Burroughs but went off him. He has cited influences such as Jonathan Swift, Franz Kafka, Lewis Carroll and Joseph Heller as formative influences on his writing style. Other influences on his fiction include Hunter S. Thompson. Self credits Céline's book Journey to the End of the Night with inspiring him to write fiction.Zack Busner is a recurring character in Self's fiction, appearing in the short story collections The Quantity Theory of Insanity, Grey Area and Dr. Mukti and Other Tales of Woe, as well as in the novels Great Apes, The Book of Dave, Umbrella and Shark. Busner is a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst practising in London, and is prone to self-promotion at the expense of his patients. He is often the antagonist of the stories he appears in, although not always with villainous intent.
Among Self's admirers was the American critic Harold Bloom. Journalist Stuart Maconie has described him as "that rarity in modern cultural life, a genuine intellectual with a bracing command of words and ideas who is also droll, likeable and culturally savvy."

Political views
In the 2015 UK general election Self voted Labour in a general election for the first time since 1997. In May 2015, he wrote in The Guardian: "No, I'm no longer a socialist if to be one is to believe that a socialist utopia is attainable by some collective feat of will – but I remain a socialist, if 'socialism' is to be understood as an antipathy to vested interests and privileges neither deserved nor earned, and a strong desire for a genuinely egalitarian society." In March 2017, he wrote in the New Statesman: "Nowadays I think in terms of compassionate pragmatism: I'll leave socialism to Žižek and the other bloviators."In July 2015 Self endorsed Jeremy Corbyn's campaign in the Labour Party leadership election. He said during a Channel 4 News interview that Corbyn represents a useful ideological divide within Labour, and could lead to the formation of a schism in the party.Self is a republican.

Personal life
Self's mother died in 1988. He was married from 1989 to 1997 to Kate Chancellor. They have two children, a son, Alexis, and a daughter, Madeleine. They lived together in a terraced house just off the Portobello Road. In 1997, Self married journalist Deborah Orr, with whom he has sons Ivan and Luther. In 2017, Orr and Self separated, and Self was living in a rented flat in Stockwell. Orr died on 20 October 2019.
Self has stated that he has abstained from drugs, except for caffeine and nicotine, since 1998. He sent his younger children to private schools after they experienced bullying at state schools in Lambeth.Self was diagnosed with the blood disease Polycythaemia vera in 2011.He has described himself as a psychogeographer and modern flâneur, and has written about walks he has taken. In December 2006, he walked 26 miles (42 kilometres) from his home in South London to Heathrow Airport. Upon arriving at Kennedy Airport he walked 20 miles (32 kilometres) from there to Manhattan. In August 2013, Self wrote of his anger following an incident in which he was stopped and questioned by police in Yorkshire while out walking with his 11-year-old son, on suspicion of being a paedophile. The police were alerted by a security guard at Bishop Burton College. He had asked the security guard for permission to cross the school grounds.In September 2018 Self was accused of "mental cruelty" by Orr in relation to their divorce, in a series of posts on Twitter.Self has discussed his Jewish heritage and its impact on his identity. In 2006, Self  'resigned' as a Jew as a protest against the Israeli invasion of Lebanon. In 2018 he stated in an interview with the BBC that he had rethought his position, due to the resurgence of anti-Semitism in Britain.Self is 6 feet 5 inches (196 cm) tall, collects vintage typewriters and smokes a pipe. His brother is the author and journalist Jonathan Self.Self became a vegetarian in 2019.

Legacy
In 2016, the British Library acquired Self's archive; the collection is a hybrid archive of paper and born-digital material. The Papers of Will Self are divided into two parts: family papers and personal and literary papers. The papers can be accessed through the British Library catalogue.

Awards
1991: Geoffrey Faber Memorial Prize for The Quantity Theory of Insanity
1998: Aga Khan Prize for Fiction from The Paris Review for Tough Tough Toys for Tough Tough Boys
2008: Bollinger Everyman Wodehouse Prize for Comic Fiction for The Butt

Works
Novels
Cock and Bull (1992)
My Idea of Fun (1993)
The Sweet Smell of Psychosis (illustrated novella) (1996)
Great Apes (1997)
How the Dead Live (2000)
Dorian, an Imitation (2002)
The Book of Dave (2006)
The Butt (2008)
Walking to Hollywood (2010)
Umbrella (2012)
Shark (2014)
Phone (2017)

Short story collections
The Quantity Theory of Insanity (1991)
Grey Area (1994)
Tough, Tough Toys for Tough, Tough Boys (1998)
Dr. Mukti and Other Tales of Woe (2004)
Liver: A Fictional Organ with a Surface Anatomy of Four Lobes (2008)
The Undivided Self: Selected Stories (2010)

Non-fiction
Self has also compiled several books of work from his newspaper and magazine columns which mix interviews with counter-culture figures, restaurant reviews and literary criticism.

Junk Mail (1996)
Perfidious Man (2000) photography by David M. Gamble
Sore Sites (2000)
Feeding Frenzy (2001)
Psychogeography (2007)
Psycho Too (2009)
The Unbearable Lightness of Being a Prawn Cracker (2012)
Will (2019)
Why Read: Selected Writings 2001-2021 (2022)

Television
The Minor Character – Self's short story was turned into a short film on Sky Arts which starred David Tennant as "Will".
Passage 10:
Guilherme Marchi
Guilherme Marchi (pronounced Gih-lare-mee Mar-kee) (born July 22, 1982) is a Brazilian former professional rodeo cowboy who specialized in bull riding, and competed in the Professional Bull Riders (PBR) circuit. He was the 2008 PBR World Champion.

Background
Marchi is 6 feet 0 inches (1.83 m) tall and weighs 198 pounds (90 kg). He is from Leme, São Paulo, and is of Italian descent on his father's side. He rode his bulls right-handed. His special interests include soccer, team roping, and surfing.

Career
Marchi competed very briefly in the Championship Bull Riding (CBR) tour in 2004 before joining the PBR full-time. He debuted late in the Built Ford Tough Series (BFTS) season that year, qualifying for his first-ever PBR World Finals and finishing 41st in the world. After finishing in the runner-up position for the PBR World Championship in three consecutive years, he won his world title in 2008. Statistically, Marchi was one of the most consistent riders on the tour. He would go on to qualify for the World Finals all 15 years of his PBR career (2004 to 2018).In 2005, Guilherme Marchi was the biggest threat to Justin McBride’s dream of being the PBR World Champion. McBride won, Marchi came in second. However, Marchi was the PBR World Finals event champion that year. 
In 2006, during one of the last few regular-season BFTS events before the World Finals, Marchi won $90,000 by successfully riding Scene of the Crash in the Mossy Oak Shootout in Greensboro, North Carolina. At the World Finals, Marchi once again failed to win when fellow Brazilian Adriano Moraes came from behind to claim the PBR world championship, with Marchi placing second. 
Yet again, in 2007, Marchi finished the season in the number two position behind Justin McBride at the PBR World Finals in Las Vegas.In 2008, Marchi dominated the PBR circuit, riding nearly 75% of his bulls, winning five events, and earning over $1.5 million (nearly three times as much as any other PBR rider) on his way to his PBR world championship title and the $1 million bonus that went with it.In March 2014, in the opening round of the BFTS event in Phoenix, Arizona, Marchi became the first bull rider to successfully complete 500 qualified rides in the PBR, riding Pandora’s Pyxis.On April 8, 2017, Marchi rode Shocker for 86.25 points in Round 2 of the BFTS event in Billings, Montana. In doing so, he became the first PBR rider to reach 600 qualified rides and received a commemorative belt buckle.On August 12, 2018, Marchi announced that 2018 would be his final year of bull riding, with the intention of retiring after the PBR World Finals. He finished his professional career with 635 qualified rides (the most ever in PBR history), 36 PBR event wins, and over $5.3 million in career earnings.Marchi officially retired from bull riding following his victory at the 2018 PBR Brazil event in Goiânia, Goiás.In 2023, Marchi became the assistant coach to head coach J.W. Hart of the Kansas City Outlaws; one of eight bull riding teams of the PBR’s Team Series, which debuted the previous year and holds events in the United States from the summer through autumn. Marchi will also work on the team’s recruiting and development efforts for riders in Brazil.

Honors
On November 5, 2019, Marchi was inducted into the PBR Ring of Honor.On May 14, 2022, Marchi was inducted into the Bull Riding Hall of Fame.

Personal
On April 19, 2018, Marchi married long-time girlfriend Maria in Texas. She is his second wife. They have a son. Marchi also has two other children, a daughter and son, from his first wife, Patricia. All of his children were born in the United States. While competing in the U.S. PBR circuit, Marchi lived in Ferris, Texas. After retiring from bull riding, he moved back to Brazil with his family.