Passage 1:
Great News
Great News is an American sitcom television series created and written by Tracey Wigfield, and executive produced by Wigfield alongside Tina Fey, Robert Carlock, and David Miner for 3 Arts Entertainment, Little Stranger and Universal Television. The series premiered April 25, 2017 on NBC.On May 11, 2017, NBC renewed Great News for a second season of 13 episodes, which premiered on September 28, 2017. On May 11, 2018, NBC canceled the series after two seasons.

Premise
The series, set in the world of television news, follows an up-and-coming news producer who finds herself dealing with a new intern: her mother.

Cast and characters
Main
Briga Heelan as Katherine "Katie" Wendelson, a segment producer at The Breakdown who suddenly has to deal with the presence of her mother Carol, who is hired as an intern at the show
Andrea Martin as Carol Wendelson, Katie's mother and an intern at The Breakdown
Adam Campbell as Greg Walsh, an executive producer at The Breakdown and Katie's boss and love interest
Nicole Richie as Portia Scott-Griffith, co-anchor of The Breakdown
Horatio Sanz as Justin, video editor at The Breakdown
John Michael Higgins as Chuck Pierce, co-anchor of The Breakdown who was once a well-respected network anchor

Recurring
Tracey Wigfield as Beth Vierk: the meteorologist for The Breakdown
Sheaun McKinney as Wayne: a cameraman for The Breakdown
Brad Morris as Gene: one of the segment producers on The Breakdown
Stewart Skelton as Dave Wendelson: Katie's father and Carol's husband, whose face is always partially obscured
Vicki Lawrence as Angie Deltaliano: Carol's best friend
Sarah Baker as Joyce Vickley: a human resources employee who comes in contact with The Breakdown staff
Adam Countee as Chip: co-host of The Chip & Chet Report, a competitor of The Breakdown
Dave Hill as Chet: co-host of The Chip & Chet Report, a competitor of The Breakdown
Ana Gasteyer as Kelly: boozy co-host of Morning Wined Up, MMN's morning show
Rachel Dratch as Mary-Kelly: boozy co-host of Morning Wined Up, MMN's morning show
Christina Pickles as Mildred Marlock (season 1): the owner of MMN and Greg's grandmother
Tina Fey as Diana St. Tropez (season 2): the new head of MMN
Reid Scott as Jeremy (season 2): Katie's new boyfriend and a workaholic reporter for The New York Times
Jim Rash as Fenton Pelt (season 2): the billionaire owner of Pelt Industries who sues MMN due to a story reported by The Breakdown

Guest
Episodes
Season 1 (2017)
Season 2 (2017–18)
Reception
Great News has received generally positive reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes the series has an approval rating of 76% based on 33 reviews, with an average rating of 6.15/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Great News overcomes its familiar trappings with gently subversive humor and a smart cast of talented, likable actors." On Metacritic, the series has a score of 67 out of 100, based on 21 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
Passage 2:
3 Arts Entertainment
3 Arts Entertainment is an American production company and talent management founded by Erwin Stoff, Michael Rotenberg and Howard Klein in 1991.The company has gone on to produce TV shows such as King of the Hill, The Office, Everybody Hates Chris, Parks and Recreation, The Mindy Project, Brooklyn Nine-Nine, It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt, American Vandal as well as produce films Edge of Tomorrow, Unbroken and 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi. The first movie the company produced was the National Lampoon movie Loaded Weapon 1, which was released on February 5, 1993. The company subsequently set up a deal with 20th Century Fox in 1993. In 1996, 3 Arts made an alliance with CBS and Sony Pictures to launch 3 Arts Television which was dissolved by the end of the following year when it failed to produce any primetime TV projects for the network.Erwin Stoff founded the company with Michael Rotenberg and Howard Klein, who are all producers and talent managers. Managers Dave Becky, David Miner, Molly Madden and Nick Frenkel work at 3 Arts. In 2003, 3 Arts received a television deal at 20th Century Fox Television. In May 2018, Lionsgate acquired a majority stake in the company.

Films produced
TV shows produced
1990s
2000s
2010s
2020s
Passage 3:
Louie (season 2)
The second season of the American television comedy series Louie premiered on June 23, 2011, and concluded on September 8, 2011. It consisted of thirteen episodes, each running approximately 23 minutes in length. FX broadcast the second season on Thursdays at 10:30 pm in the United States. The season was produced by 3 Arts Entertainment and the executive producers were Louis C.K., Dave Becky and M. Blair Breard. The second season was released on DVD and Blu-ray in region 1 on June 19, 2012.Louie was created, written and directed by Louis C.K., who stars as a fictionalized version of himself, a comedian and newly divorced father raising his two daughters in New York City. The show has a loose format atypical for television comedy series, consisting of largely unconnected storylines and segments (described as "extended vignettes") that revolve around Louie's life, punctuated by live stand-up performances.
The season received critical acclaim from critics.

Cast
Main cast
Louis C.K. as Louie

Recurring cast
Guest stars
Nick DiPaolo as Nick ("Niece")
Jim Norton as Jim ("Oh, Louie/Tickets")
Chris Rock as Chris ("New Jersey/Airport")
Godfrey as Godfrey ("Niece")
F. Murray Abraham as Jonathan ("New Jersey/Airport")
Amir Blumenfeld as Young Nervous Writer ("Halloween/Ellie")
Dane Cook as Dane ("Oh, Louie/Tickets")
Joan Rivers as Joan ("Joan")
Bob Saget as Bob ("Oh, Louie/Tickets")
Doug Stanhope as Eddie ("Eddie")
Keni Thomas as Keni ("Duckling")
Steven Wright as Steven ("New Jersey/Airport")

Episodes
Reception
Reviews
The second season of Louie received "universal acclaim" from critics, receiving a Metacritic score of 90 out of 100, based on seven reviews. Alan Sepinwall of HitFix called it "one of the best shows on television" and Kris King of Slant Magazine stated "Louie is smart, cinematic, and bitterly honest, constantly dancing between revelatory moments and hysterical bursts of humor that are both surprising and touching."

Awards and nominations
For the 64th Primetime Emmy Awards, Louis C.K. received three nominations for his work on Louie—he was nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series and Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series (for "Duckling") and won for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series (for "Pregnant"). For the 28th TCA Awards, the series and C.K. himself each won for Outstanding Achievement in Comedy and Outstanding Individual Achievement in Comedy, respectively. C.K. and Pamela Adlon received a nomination for Best Television Comedy Series for the 64th Writers Guild of America Awards. C.K. was nominated for Best Actor – Television Series: Musical or Comedy for the 17th Satellite Awards. The series was also included as one of the Top Television Programs of the Year by the American Film Institute.
Passage 4:
The Mindy Project
The Mindy Project is an American romantic comedy television series created by and starring Mindy Kaling that began airing on Fox in September 2012 and finished its run of six seasons on Hulu in November 2017. The series was co-produced by Universal Television and 3 Arts Entertainment.

Plot
The series follows obstetrician/gynecologist, Mindy Lahiri (Mindy Kaling) as she tries to balance her personal and professional life, surrounded by quirky co-workers in a small medical practice in New York City. The character was inspired by Kaling's own mother, an OB/GYN. Mindy explores life with the help of her co-workers: Danny Castellano (Chris Messina), her best friend and love interest, whose religious sensibilities occasionally cause some tension; Jeremy Reed, an English physician who manages the practice; Peter Prentice, another physician who was a fraternity jock while attending Dartmouth; Morgan Tookers, a wacky, yet lovable registered nurse and an ex-con; Tamra Webb, a blunt  nurse; and Beverley, the libidinous older office receptionist.

Cast and characters
Main
Mindy Kaling as Dr. Mindy Kuhel Lahiri, a romantically frustrated OB/GYN at Shulman & Associates.
Chris Messina as Dr. Daniel Alan "Danny" Castellano (seasons 1–4; guest season 5; recurring season 6), another OB/GYN (formerly at Shulman & Associates, now at Freedom Tower Women's Health), Mindy's main frenemy and love interest.
Ed Weeks as Dr. Jeremiah "Jeremy" Reed, OB/GYN, Mindy and Danny's somewhat hapless co-partner at the office.
Anna Camp as Gwendolyn "Gwen" Grandy (season 1; guest season 2), Mindy's best friend who has settled down with a family.
Zoe Jarman as Betsy Putch (seasons 1–2), a former receptionist at the office.
Amanda Setton as Shauna Dicanio (season 1), a former receptionist at the office.
Stephen Tobolowsky as Dr. Marc Shulman (season 1; guest season 4), a former senior partner of the practice.
Ike Barinholtz as Morgan Fairchild Ransom Tookers, a registered nurse and ex-con at the office.
Beth Grant as Beverley Janoszewski, a former nurse turned receptionist at the office.
Xosha Roquemore as Tamra Webb (seasons 2–6; recurring season 1), a nurse at the office. She has a long term boyfriend, Ray Ron, for 20 years but breaks up with him to date Morgan. She name drops famous men she has dated.
Adam Pally as Dr. Peter Prentice (seasons 2–3; guest season 4; recurring seasons 5–6), Mindy's best friend and an OB/GYN at the office.
Garret Dillahunt as Dr. Jody Kimball-Kinney (seasons 4–6), an OB/GYN who joins Shulman & Associates during Mindy's maternity leave.
Fortune Feimster as Colette Kimball-Kinney (seasons 4–6), a nurse at the office and sister of Jody. She and Morgan eventually move in together.
Rebecca Rittenhouse as Dr. Anna Ziev (seasons 5–6), a young, put-together uptight doctor in the office who becomes a new foil for Mindy.

Recurring
Episodes
Production and development
The series was initially commissioned by NBC, but the pilot with the working title It's Messy was released from NBC's projects on January 27, 2012. NBC then sent the script to Fox executives who read it over that following weekend. On January 30, 2012, Fox green-lit the pilot, with Mindy Kaling attached to star.On May 9, 2012, Fox placed a series order for the comedy. Two days later, the title was changed from It's Messy to The Mindy Project. On August 27, 2012, the pilot episode was made available to view online on various sites including Fox, in an attempt to garner interest in the series. On October 8, 2012, Fox ordered a full season of The Mindy Project. On March 4, 2013, the series was renewed for a second season, which began on September 17, 2013. On November 21, 2013, Fox announced that The Mindy Project would take a mid-season hiatus, before returning on April 1, 2014. Fox announced the third season renewal of The Mindy Project on March 7, 2014.On May 6, 2015, Fox cancelled the series after three seasons. On May 15, 2015, Hulu picked up the show, commissioning a 26 episode fourth season. On May 4, 2016, Hulu announced it had picked up the series for a 16-episode season 5, which was later reduced to 14. On March 29, 2017, Kaling announced the series would return for a sixth and final season; the final episode of the series aired on November 14, 2017.Casting announcements for the remaining series regular roles began in February 2012, with Ed Weeks cast in the role of Dr. Jeremy Reed, a sexy, British doctor in the practice. Zoe Jarman and Dana Delorenzo then joined in series regular roles. Jarman signed on to play Betsy Putch, an upbeat receptionist at the practice; whilst Delorenzo joined as Shauna Dicanio, a young, party loving receptionist in the practice. In mid-March, Chris Messina joined the cast as Dr. Danny Castellano, an arrogant doctor who works at the practice. Shortly after, Anna Camp boarded the series as Gwen Grandy, a stay-at-home mom and  Mindy's best friend.A few months later, Amanda Setton, Stephen Tobolowsky and Ike Barinholtz joined the series. Setton replaced Dana DeLorenzo in the role of Shauna; Tobolowsky joined in the series regular role of Dr. Marc Shulman, the senior partner of the practice; and Barinholtz signed onto the recurring role of Morgan Tookers, a quirky rehabilitated ex-con  who joins the practice as a nurse.

Cast changes
The first change occurred when Stephen Tobolowsky's role was eliminated after the second episode – following re-shoots that saw his character be re-written into a mere authoritarian figure in the office – when it was decided that "they didn't really want Mindy to have a boss in the office". Tobolowsky returned, albeit in a voice-over only role, in the eighth episode to explain that his character had retired. The second change of the season, which was first reported on November 20, 2012, saw Amanda Setton's role also eliminated entirely and Anna Camp downgraded to a recurring cast member. They both departed after the twelfth episode. Despite becoming a recurring cast member, Camp only made a single appearance in the seventeenth episode. Neither Setton or Camp's characters had their absence referenced, nor were they mentioned again.
The first change for the second season, which occurred before production of the season began, saw Xosha Roquemore upgraded to a series regular role after recurring in the final three episodes of the previous season. The second change, which occurred just prior to the production of the season's fifth episode, resulted in Adam Pally also being upgraded to a series regular role. He had previously signed onto the series in a recurring role but had filmed only two episodes prior to being promoted.The first change of the third season occurred prior to the start of production and saw Zoe Jarman's role eliminated from the show. Like Setton and Camp's departures in the first season, the absence of her character was never addressed. The second cast change of the season was announced on November 21, 2014, and saw Adam Pally leave the series after the season's thirteenth episode. His departure after the thirteenth episode of the season was a condition of his upgrade to a series regular that had occurred the previous year. It was reported that Pally is "expected to make occasional guest appearances". Pally made multiple guest appearances after his departure, where he was still credited amongst the regular cast in episodes he appeared, making his final appearance as a part of the main cast in the third-season finale.
In December 2015 it was reported that Fortune Feimster had been upgraded to a series regular role beginning with the fourteenth episode of the fourth season, after appearing in seven of the first thirteen episodes. Garret Dillahunt joined the show in a major recurring role as Dr. Jody Kimball-Kinney.In June 2016, it was announced that Chris Messina would not be returning as a series regular for season five, but would instead appear as a guest star.

Reception
Critical reception
The Mindy Project received positive reviews from critics, with many highlighting Kaling's performance and her unique character, as well as the writing and directing. On Rotten Tomatoes, the first season has a rating of 81%, based on 48 reviews, with an average rating of 7/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "The Mindy Project is such a charming comedy, led by Mindy Kaling's impressive talent, that its faults are easy to forgive." Review aggregation website Metacritic, which assigns a weighted mean based on reviews from mainstream critics, season one received a score of 69 out of 100, based on 32 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". It was the number-six best-reviewed show according to the site's fall 2012 season.On Rotten Tomatoes, Season 2 has a rating of 89%, based on 18 reviews, with an average rating of 6.8/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Mindy Kaling earns consistent laughs with wit, charm and physical comedy, as she and her cast grow into well-rounded and familiar, albeit peculiar, characters." On Metacritic, the second season has a score of 55 out of 100, based on four critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews". Season 3 of the show holds a rating of 82% on Rotten Tomatoes with the critical consensus reading, "The Mindy Project, while still wildly funny, travels further into rom-com country this season."Season 4 of the show holds a rating of 93% on Rotten Tomatoes with the critical consensus reading, "The Mindy Project begins its online migration with some of the show's best-ever episodes, further refining the balance between heart and humor struck during the first three seasons." On Metacritic the season has a score of 81 out of 100, based on 5 critics, indicating "universal acclaim".

Criticism
The Mindy Project has been the object of scrutiny not only from traditional media forms but also from feminists and people of color, who often weigh in on the show's decisions in casting and writing. At the end of the first season, Jezebel posted an article called "Mindy Kaling Only Makes Out with White Guys", a critique of the casting of romantic leads on the show. The same article contains a response from Nisha Chittal, who has defended Kaling's success in the past, who applauded the show for not making Kaling's race central to her character, and for showing that an Indian woman could date non-Indian men.
During the second season, the episode "Mindy Lahiri Is a Racist," which addresses white supremacy, provoked discussion as to whether or not Kaling had made "reparations" for showing a predominantly white cast.Before the third season began airing, Kaling received criticism for a comment in a Flare article entitled "She's the Boss", in which she stated that the show would not address abortion, as "it would be demeaning to the topic to talk about it in a half-hour sitcom." In an appearance on The Colbert Report two weeks later, she clarified:

A lot of women look to me and look to the show, and they want me to be a spokesperson for a lot of issues, and I actually think that's a responsibility that's cool, I want to live up to that ... I want to be able to talk plainly on things but I also want to create an entertaining show. We haven't found a hilarious take on abortion that has not been done yet—but we might. I have faith in us.Contrasting with the above criticism, a 2021 Feminist Media Studies' article titled "Un/accented: the politics of difference in US popular culture" argues that some of the criticism that The Mindy Project received, regarding the predominately white love interests or absence of Indian cultural reference, is not necessarily an issue for Kaling to address but rather indicative of how critics and journalists only see Kaling's work through surface level analysis and how many non-white bodies are present instead of what the work is actually critiquing through dialogue or plot.

Ratings
Awards and nominations
Broadcast
In the United Kingdom, the show airs on Sky Comedy. It used to air on E4 until 2015
In Canada the show was aired by City. A network spokesperson confirmed that The Mindy Project would continue to air new episodes on City City didn't air Season 6 until January 2018. (Hulu is not accessible in Canada.)
In Oceania the show airs for Australia on the Seven Network from January 28, 2013 at 10PM Mondays and for New Zealand on FOUR from March 11, 2013 at 9:30PM Mondays.
In Europe the show aired from March 26, 2013 at 9:30PM Tuesdays, for the Netherlands on Foxlife from January 20, 2014 at 8:30PM Mondays and for Spain on Cosmopolitan TV from January 23, 2014 at 9:30PM Thursdays. In Germany the show airs on Comedy Central Germany since 2013.
Passage 5:
Louie (season 5)
The fifth and final season of the American television comedy series Louie premiered on April 9, 2015, and concluded on May 28, 2015. It consists of eight episodes, each running approximately 23 minutes in length. FX broadcast the fifth season on Thursdays at 10:30 pm in the United States. The season was produced by 3 Arts Entertainment and the executive producers were Louis C.K., Dave Becky and M. Blair Breard.
Louie was created, written and directed by Louis C.K., who stars as a fictionalized version of himself, a comedian and divorced father raising his two daughters in New York City. The show has a loose format atypical for television comedy series, consisting of largely unconnected storylines and segments (described as "extended vignettes") that revolve around Louie's life, punctuated by live stand-up performances.

Production
Louie was renewed by FX for a fifth season in July 2014 with a seven-episode order. When FX announced the season's premiere date in January 2015, it was announced the season would consist of eight episodes instead of thirteen or fourteen. It was later revealed by Louis C.K. during a panel to promote the show that the shortened season length was due to an unfortunate decision he made while high on marijuana. In January 2015, C.K. spoke about the writing and tone of the season, "This season is more laugh-centric and funny than season four. The feeling I was having when I wrote the season...was a goofy and playful feeling." The fifth season features the return of the opening credits and theme song, which were absent in the fourth season.

Cast
Main cast
Louis C.K. as Louie

Recurring cast
Guest stars
Episodes
Reception
Critical response
The fifth season of Louie has received acclaim from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, the season has a rating of 92%, based on 38 reviews, with the site's critical consensus reading, "A renewed focus on the show's singular blend of sincerity and hilarity keep Louie at the top of its game." On Metacritic, the season has a score of 91 out of 100, based on 20 critics, indicating "universal acclaim".Sonia Saraiya of Salon wrote that "Louie is a treasure" and that season 5 of the show "is as confident and distinctive as ever, a sitcom that is not quite like anything else on television". James Poniewozik of Time wrote that season 5 is "by and large, blisteringly funny" and "also poignant", stating that "Louie has again successfully reinvented itself, this time as what it used to be." Brian Lowry of Variety praised the series and wrote, "Almost nothing else on TV — certainly in half-hour form — rivals the particularity of C.K.'s approach, which has garnered the kind of well-deserved accolades that have kept FX quietly humming that 'Brother Louie' tune."

Accolades
For the 67th Primetime Emmy Awards, the series received nominations for Outstanding Comedy Series, Louis C.K. for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series, and Pamela Adlon for Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series. C.K. also received nominations for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series for "Bobby's House" and Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for "Sleepover". For the 22nd Screen Actors Guild Awards, Louie C.K. was nominated for Best Comedy Actor. For the 68th Directors Guild of America Awards, Louis C.K. was nominated for Outstanding Directing – Comedy Series for "Sleepover".
Passage 6:
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt is an American sitcom created by Tina Fey and Robert Carlock, starring Ellie Kemper in the title role. It premiered on March 6, 2015 on Netflix and ran for four seasons, ending on January 25, 2019. An interactive special premiered on May 12, 2020.
The series follows 29-year-old Kimmy Schmidt (Kemper) as she adjusts to life after being rescued from a doomsday cult in the fictional town of Durnsville, Indiana, where she and three other women were held captive by Reverend Richard Wayne Gary Wayne (Jon Hamm) for 15 years. Determined to be seen as something other than a victim and armed only with a positive attitude, she decides to restart her life by moving to New York City, where she quickly befriends her street-wise landlady Lillian Kaushtupper (Carol Kane), finds a roommate in struggling actor Titus Andromedon (Tituss Burgess), and gains a job as a nanny for melancholic and out-of-touch socialite Jacqueline Voorhees (Jane Krakowski).
Throughout its run, the series received critical acclaim, with critic Scott Meslow calling it "the first great sitcom of the streaming era". It received 20 Primetime Emmy Award nominations, including four nominations for Outstanding Comedy Series and a nomination for Outstanding Television Movie for the 2020 special Kimmy vs. the Reverend.

Synopsis
Kimmy Schmidt (Ellie Kemper) was in eighth grade when she was kidnapped by Reverend Richard Wayne Gary Wayne (Jon Hamm). He held Kimmy and three other women captive for 15 years in an underground bunker and convinced them that a nuclear apocalypse had left them the sole survivors of humanity.
In the first season, the women are rescued, and go on to appear on the Today Show in New York City. After the show, Kimmy decides she doesn't want to return to Indiana or be seen as a victim, so she starts a new life in New York City. Roaming around the city, she comes across landlady Lillian Kaushtupper (Carol Kane), who offers Kimmy a chance to room with Titus Andromedon (Tituss Burgess) in her downstairs apartment. However, to get the apartment, Kimmy has to find a job. When she tries to get a job at a nearby candy store, she sees a boy stealing candy. She pursues him back to his home and encounters his mother, Jacqueline Voorhees (Jane Krakowski), a Manhattan trophy wife, who mistakes her for a nanny, and whom Kimmy mistakes as someone trapped in a cult. Jacqueline hires Kimmy as a nanny for her 10-year-old son. As Season 1 continues, Kimmy falls in love with Dong (Ki Hong Lee), a Vietnamese man from her G.E.D. class; goes to court to testify against the Reverend, and discovers how the world has changed in the 15 years she was held captive. 
In the second season, Kimmy is sick of working for Jacqueline and gets a job at a year-round Christmas store and then as an Uber driver. She tries to get over Dong, who enters a green card marriage with another G.E.D. student and is eventually deported. As Kimmy tries to move on, so do Titus and Jacqueline, who both find boyfriends. Titus begins dating construction worker Mikey Politano (Mike Carlsen) and Jacqueline begins dating lawyer Russ Snyder (David Cross). Jacqueline also goes back to her Native American heritage and decides to take down the Washington Redskins, who her boyfriend's father happens to own. Kimmy reunites with Gretchen and Cyndee to save them from joining another cult and getting married on television, respectively. When Season 2 ends, Titus leaves to be a performer on a cruise and Lillian protests the invasion of hipsters in her neighborhood, while Kimmy makes amends with her mother (Lisa Kudrow) after advice from her therapist (Tina Fey) before receiving a phone call from the Reverend in prison, telling her that they need to get a divorce.
In the third season, Kimmy proceeds with the divorce from the Reverend but hits a snag when she learns that a devoted fan (guest star Laura Dern) wants to marry him. After getting her G.E.D., Kimmy decides to go to college and ends up at Columbia University, where she is popular but fails academically. She forms a friendship with Perry (Daveed Diggs), a philosophy and religion transfer student who, like Kimmy, does not fit in with the rich, elitist Ivy League students. Titus returns from his stint on the cruise harboring a secret and, determined to come home to Mikey with money and a job, he auditions for Sesame Street. However, after the man auditioning Titus asks him to perform sexual acts on a puppet, Titus leaves and runs home to Mikey. However, Titus sees Mikey out with another man, and breaks up with him. Lillian is elected to the city council and attempts to block the construction of a supermarket chain for fear it will gentrify the neighborhood. She later starts a relationship with the owner of the chain (Peter Riegert). Meanwhile, Jacqueline and Russ execute their plan to force his family to change the name of the Redskins and Titus makes it big with the single "Boobs in California". At the end of season three, Titus vows to win Mikey back from his new boyfriend, Jacqueline finds a profession, and Kimmy lands a job at a tech start-up.
In the fourth and final season, Kimmy is working at Giztoob, the tech company started by a former classmate at Columbia, and Jacqueline is representing Titus as his agent. After acting in an anti-bullying performance for a middle school, Titus gets a job as director of the school play and, in an attempt to impress Mikey, pretends to write and star in a superhero television show called The Capist, starring Greg Kinnear. Meanwhile, Lillian's boyfriend Artie dies and she is put in charge of his adult daughter's trust. Kimmy reunites with Donna Maria, who is now a successful businesswoman. Outraged and inspired by men's rights activists, Kimmy writes a children's book that empowers girls and encourages boys to be kind; by the end of season four, Kimmy has found success as a children's author. Season 4 features two episodes that veer from the main plot. In the first, a standalone mockumentary episode, Jacqueline's former boy toy Doug, a.k.a. DJ Fingablast, creates a true crime documentary called Party Monster: Scratching the Surface, which sympathizes with the Reverend and paints Kimmy and the other Mole Women negatively. The second episode, "Sliding Van Doors", presents an alternate universe in which Kimmy is never kidnapped, Titus does not audition for The Lion King in 1998, Jacqueline does not marry Julian Voorhees, and Lillian runs a Latin street gang. The series concludes with each of the main four characters finding success and purpose in new ventures.

Episodes
Cast and characters
Main
Ellie Kemper as Kimberly "Kimmy" Cougar Schmidt, the titular character. Armed with only unflagging optimism,  a childlike sense of wonder and an eighth-grade education, she attempts to regain the life that was taken from her and navigate her way through the unfamiliar struggles of New York life.
Tituss Burgess as Titus Andromedon (born Ronald Wilkerson), Kimmy's gay, flamboyant roommate and an aspiring actor and singer. Melodramatic and self-absorbed, Titus nevertheless cares deeply for, and is very protective of Kimmy. Despite his talent and ego, he is plagued by self-doubt after years of rejection in the business. Titus hails from Chickasaw County, Mississippi, and moved to New York City in 1998.
Carol Kane as Lillian Kaushtupper, Kimmy and Titus' odd landlady. A proud born-and-bred New Yorker with a long, complex criminal history, she fights against the possible gentrification of her neighborhood (although it soon becomes clear that she hates any form of progress or technology). Despite her willingness to do anything to make a buck, she has a very big heart and will go out of her way to help her tenants.
Jane Krakowski as Jacqueline White (formerly Voorhees; née Jackie Lynn White), a wealthy and insecure socialite who hires Kimmy as a nanny. Despite coming across as arrogant, condescending and out of touch, she is very fond of (and heavily reliant on) her new employee, who helps her gain perspective on her unhappy marriage. She is secretly of Lakota Native American descent and is passing for white. As the series progresses, she gradually reconnects with her family and her culture. She is the mother of Buckley Voorhees and the former step-mother of Xanthippe Lannister Voorhees. Her ex-husband is Julian Voorhees.

Recurring
Guest
Production
Development
The show was created by Tina Fey and Robert Carlock when NBC executives asked them to develop a show for Ellie Kemper. Fey said that they found an "innocence" about Kemper's face, but also noted a "strength" to it. One idea was for the show to center on Kemper's character waking up from a coma, but this idea was abandoned in favor of the cult-survivor storyline.The show was initially under development for NBC under the title Tooken. NBC ultimately sold the series to Netflix. Fey said that this was in partly due to NBC's "not feeling confident about watching comedies". Prior to the sale, NBC planned to air the series as either a mid-season replacement or as a summer series. It was sold to Netflix with a two-season order.On June 13, 2017, it was renewed for a fourth and final season, with the first six episodes premiering on May 30, 2018. The second half was released on January 25, 2019. On May 8, 2019, it was announced that it would return with an interactive special, which premiered on May 12, 2020.

Casting
Casting announcements for the remaining roles were made in March 2014, with Tituss Burgess cast as Kimmy's roommate, Titus, and Carol Kane as Kimmy's and Titus's landlady, Lillian.Shortly afterwards, Sara Chase was cast Cyndee, Kimmy's closest friend during their years in the cult; and Lauren Adams as Gretchen, a 10-year member of the cult who believes everything she is told. Jane Krakowski was later cast as Jacqueline Voorhees, a wealthy Manhattanite who hires Kimmy as a nanny. Megan Dodds was originally cast before Krakowski replaced her.

Music
The show's theme song, "Unbreakable", was produced by The Gregory Brothers and written by Jeff Richmond. It is a tribute to The Gregory Brothers' YouTube show Songify the News – auto-tuned news interviews that became popular videos. It specifically parodies the mannerisms of Antoine Dodson in the "Bed Intruder Song". Richmond also wrote "Peeno Noir", a song performed by character Titus Andromedon during season 1, episode 6.

Artwork
Artwork for the show's opening sequence was produced by a team at Pentagram that included feminist artist Deva Pardue.

Home video releases
Reception
The show has been widely acclaimed by television critics, who have praised the writing and cast.

Season 1
On Rotten Tomatoes, the first season has a rating of 95%, based on 55 reviews, with an average rating of 7.5/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Blessed with originality and a spot-on performance from Ellie Kemper, The Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt is as odd as it is hilarious." On Metacritic, the first season has a score of 78 out of 100, based on 29 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".Scott Meslow of The Week called the series "the first great sitcom of the streaming era", praising its wit, edge, and feminist tone. Brian Moylan of The Guardian noted that it is "the sort of show that could benefit from multiple viewings, because the jokes are so packed in you’re sure to miss something while laughing." TV Guide named it the "best new comedy of 2015". IGN reviewer Max Nicholson gave the first season an 8.3 out of 10 'Great' rating, saying "Tina Fey and Robert Carlock's Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt is another winner in Netflix's original series catalog. Not only is it charming and funny, but it's unabashedly kooky, and Ellie Kemper nails the lead role."The first season was nominated for seven Primetime Emmy Awards.
Some reviewers have criticized the show's portrayal of Native Americans, with Vulture referring to a prominent Native American subplot as "offensive". BuzzFeed wrote that the show has a "major race problem" and cited the lack of a plurality of portrayals of Native Americans as the main issue with the subplot, stating that "the way Native Americans are represented on this show matters. It's not one representation among a cornucopia of representations; it's the single mainstream representation in years." The Daily Beast stated that when it comes to race, “especially in its portrayal of a key Vietnamese character, the show leaves much to be desired.”In the wake of the controversy, Tina Fey responded: "I feel like we put so much effort into writing and crafting everything, they need to speak for themselves. There's a real culture of demanding apologies, and I'm opting out of that."

Season 2
On Rotten Tomatoes, the second season holds a 100% approval rating, based on 24 reviews, with an average rating of 7.6/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Not letting up in season two, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt is still odd in the best of ways, wonderfully building on its unique comedy stylings and brilliantly funny cast." On Metacritic, the second season has a score of 82 out of 100, based on 16 reviews, indicating "universal acclaim".The second season was nominated for four Primetime Emmy Awards.
There was controversy surrounding the third episode from this season, “Kimmy Goes to a Play!,” which involved the use of yellow-face and the name of a group of Asian-Americans who were critical of yellow-face. The group is referred to as "Respectful Asian Portrayals in Entertainment", or "R.A.P.E" for short. The Asian-Americans shown protesting against yellow-face in the episode are conveyed as unlikable buffoons. Anna Akana criticized the use of yellow-face and the R.A.P.E. acronym during her 2016 Asians in Entertainment Key Note speech. Alex Abad-Santos wrote, “The odd thing about this episode is that it's another Tina Fey project that paints Asian people, specifically Asian women, as crappy characters. [...] The plot feels like a pointed, ironic response to anyone who has criticized Fey's past projects for being lazy and racist.”

Season 3
On Rotten Tomatoes, the third season holds a 97% approval rating, based on 29 reviews, with an average rating of 8.11/10. The site's critical consensus states: "Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt continues to thrive with a comically agile cast, notable guest stars, and a forceful influx of funny." On Metacritic, the third season has a score of 78 out of 100, based on 12 reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".The third season was nominated for five Primetime Emmy Awards.

Season 4
On Rotten Tomatoes, the fourth season holds a 94% approval rating, based on 32 reviews, with an average rating of 7.77/10. The site's critical consensus states: "Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt ends with a final season that's as topical as it is cheerily irreverent." On Metacritic, the fourth season has a score of 85 out of 100, based on 6 reviews, indicating "universal acclaim".The fourth season was nominated for two Primetime Emmy Awards.

Special
On Rotten Tomatoes, the Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt: Kimmy vs. the Reverend special has an approval rating of 94%, based on 32 reviews, with an average rating of 7.81/10. The site's critical consensus reads: "Kimmy and company return as resilient as ever in a fun and fast paced special that makes excellent use of its interactive capabilities to produce maximum fabulosity."The special was nominated for two Primetime Emmy Awards.
Passage 7:
List of 30 Rock episodes
30 Rock is an American satirical television sitcom that was broadcast on NBC. Created by Tina Fey, the series follows the lives of the head writer of The Girlie Show with Tracy Jordan (TGS), Liz Lemon (Tina Fey), the other staff members of TGS, and their network executive, Jack Donaghy (Alec Baldwin).
30 Rock was a critical success, winning several major awards (including Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Comedy Series in 2007, 2008, and 2009), and achieving the top ranking on many critics' year-end best of 2006 and 2007 lists. On July 14, 2009, the series was nominated for 22 Primetime Emmy Awards, the most in a single year for a comedy series. Despite the acclaim, the series struggled in the ratings throughout its run. It broadcast a total of 138 episodes over seven seasons, from October 11, 2006, to January 31, 2013. In addition, a special episode premiered on July 16, 2020.

Series overview
Episodes
Season 1 (2006–07)
Season 2 (2007–08)
Season 3 (2008–09)
Season 4 (2009–10)
Season 5 (2010–11)
Season 6 (2012)
Season 7 (2012–13)
Special episode (2020)
Passage 8:
Cooter (30 Rock)
"Cooter" is the fifteenth and final episode of the second season of 30 Rock and the thirty-sixth episode of the series. It was written by series' creator Tina Fey and was directed by one of the season's producers, Don Scardino. The episode first aired on May 8, 2008, on the NBC network in the United States. "Cooter" follows Jack Donaghy's (Alec Baldwin) attempt to get fired from his new job in politics; Liz Lemon's (Fey) pregnancy scare and decision to adopt a baby; Tracy Jordan's (Tracy Morgan) creation of a pornographic video game; and Kenneth Parcell's (Jack McBrayer) aspiration to be an NBC page at the Beijing Olympics. The episode is an unofficial season finale, due to the season being shortened by the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike.
"Cooter" received positive reviews from critics, and several considered it to be among the series' best episodes. Several critics noted that Liz had a pregnancy scare the same week that Fey's film Baby Mama was released, possibly used as cross promotion. The episode was watched by 5.61 million American viewers on its original broadcast, and was nominated for two awards, winning one.

Plot
Jack gets a job in politics as the "Homeland Security Director for Crisis and Weather Management"; however, it is not what he expected. When he learns that Don Geiss (Rip Torn), the CEO of General Electric, said "Jackie Boy" while in his coma, he schemes with another government employee, Cooter Burger (Matthew Broderick), to get fired after his letter of resignation is rejected. Jack also enlists the help of Celeste "C.C." Cunningham (Edie Falco), his Congresswoman (D-VT) ex-girlfriend, to approve research into a "gay bomb". Jack hopes that the bomb, an old Pentagon project that is expensive, inefficient and offensive to "both the red states and the gayer blue states", will ultimately result in their dismissal.
Meanwhile, Liz thinks she may be pregnant and is horrified when she discovers it is most likely the baby of her ex-boyfriend, Dennis Duffy (Dean Winters). After several pregnancy tests, she tells a visiting Jack that the positive tests are a result of her eating "Sabor de Soledad" ("Taste of Loneliness" in Spanish) cheese puffs, which contain bull semen. Nevertheless, she tells Jack that she is ready to have a child and wants to adopt. Kenneth learns of an opportunity to be an NBC page at the Beijing Olympics, however, head page Donny Lawson (Paul Scheer) tries to make sure that he does not submit his essay on time. Jenna Maroney (Jane Krakowski) helps him complete his essay, but Donny stalls Kenneth by forcing him to deliver paper. This begins a sequence which references several Summer Olympic events. Pete shoots Donny in the leg with an arrow (archery), dressed in his gear from when he was an Olympic archer. Kenneth then goes through a series of obstacles themed to different Summer Olympic events. He begins by running and jumping over a "Wet Floor" sign (low hurdles) and then an airplane chair prop carried by two men (high hurdles). Kenneth next grabs a bamboo pole and runs with it, using it to push the button on the elevator before throwing it to another page (likely pole vault, but possibly javelin throw). He then does a forward flip into the elevator, ending with him standing and saluting to the back and front of the elevator (gymnastics/floor routine). Finally, Kenneth makes it to the 27th floor only to see his way blocked by workmen painting. As an executive opens the door to the NBC Olympic Headquarters, Kenneth spins and throws his application pack through the closing door (discus). He finally runs forward a few feet to break the blue painter's tape and collapse victorious, then throws up (sprint). Tracy's invention, the world's first pornographic video game, is nearly complete. He gives Frank, who has helped him, the prototype copy of the game.
The episode shows what happens three months later, in August 2008. Jack and Cooter present their "gay bomb" to the Pentagon, which works only in enclosed areas, making it useless in combat. However, Cooter accidentally breaks the vial, causing everybody in the room, including Vice President Dick Cheney, to "feel weird". Frank emerges from his office after playing Tracy's game non-stop for three months, not realizing the amount of time that has passed. While in Beijing, Kenneth gets involved with a Chinese woman who wants his kidneys. The last point was said in Mandarin without subtitles, leaving the English-speaking audience unaware of Kenneth's trouble.
The conversation roughly translates as:
Lady: "Kenneth, I like you, because I am attracted to your two healthy kidneys."
Kenneth: "What?"
(Man breaks down the door with gun drawn)
Kenneth: "I had no idea!"
The conversation in Mandarin:
Lady: Kenneth, 我喜歡你，因為我看上了你那兩個健壯的腎。
Kenneth: 什麼？
(Man breaks down the door with gun drawn)
Kenneth: 真沒想到！

Production
The title of the episode is one of Fey's favorite words, which she used multiple times when she appeared as an anchor on the Saturday Night Live sketch Weekend Update. Fey explains that she likes the word because "it's one of the least graphic ways to describe the female genitals". This episode marks the final appearance of Edie Falco, who was hired for a three-episode arc. Falco made her debut in the episode "Somebody to Love" as Celeste Cunningham, a Congresswoman and romantic interest of Jack's. She appeared in "Secrets and Lies", where James Carville helps the fledgling relationship. The pair breaks up in Episode 210, when they realize their careers prevent them from staying together. Falco said that she was "thrilled for the opportunity to work with such great comic actors", and expressed her enjoyment of watching the series. Fey was "thrilled to have such an amazing actress come join us", and joked that "a lot of guys on our crew want The Sopranos ending explained to them", in which Falco was a series star.

Reception
"Cooter" was watched by 5.6 million viewers, and received a 2.6 rating and 7 share in the 18–49 demographic. The 2.6 refers to 2.6% of all 18- to 49-year-olds in the U.S., and the 7 refers to 7% of all 18- to 49-year-olds watching television in the U.S. at the time of the broadcast. By comparison CBS's CSI was viewed by 17.82 million viewers, ABC's Grey's Anatomy received 15.60 million viewers, Fox's Don't Forget the Lyrics! received 6.22 million viewers, and The CW's Supernatural received 2.53 million viewers.  The finale was watched by 206,000 more viewers than the previous episode.Terry Morrow of the Knoxville News Sentinel said that, although 30 Rock is struggling to find viewers, this "tiny show...shines with absolute brilliance", and judged "Cooter" as one of its best episodes. He speculated that the lack of viewers might have been because the show had failed to create an emotional bond with its audience, despite its being "happy to be a very witty sitcom".  He felt the entire cast was "spot on", but singled out Jane Krakowski for her "scene-stealing" moments when she revealed the art of backhanded compliments. Verne Gay of Newsday praised Jenna's and Kenneth's storylines, and liked the cameo by Broderick, stating his "comic chops [were] on full display". Robert Canning of IGN praised Kenneth's and Tracy's storylines, and described Tracy's voice-recording session for his porn video game as "thank-goodness-this-is-airing-later-than-8:30".  Alan Sepinwall of The Star-Ledger felt that the "nearly-perfect" episode was marred by Kenneth's page-rivalry, which "didn't work". Time called "Cooter" the eighth-best episode of 2008.Mark A. Perigard of the Boston Herald felt that "Cooter" was one of the best episodes of 30 Rock's shortened season, with something for everyone in the ensemble cast to do.  He noted that Fey's character, Liz, has a pregnancy scare the same week that Fey's film, Baby Mama, was in theaters, asking "How much mama drama does Tina Fey think viewers want?" Bob Sassone of TV Squad originally thought the episode might have been secretly cross promoting Baby Mama, but ultimately decided against this judgment. Jeff Labrecque of Entertainment Weekly was disappointed that Liz was not actually pregnant, and hoped that her former boyfriend, Dennis, would continue to reappear in the next season. Oscar Dahl of BuddyTV speculated that the episode may have been hinting at Alec Baldwin's real-life political plans. (He was considering running for office.)The episode was nominated for Primetime Emmy Awards, winning one. Tina Fey won for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series, and Ken Eluto was nominated for Outstanding Single-Camera Picture Editing for a Comedy Series.
Passage 9:
Louie (season 4)
The fourth season of the American television comedy series Louie premiered on May 5, 2014, and concluded on June 16, 2014. It consists of fourteen episodes (an additional episode more than previous seasons), most running approximately 23 minutes in length. FX broadcast the fourth season on Mondays at 10:00 and 10:30 pm in the United States with back-to-back episodes. The season was produced by 3 Arts Entertainment and the executive producers were Louis C.K., Dave Becky and M. Blair Breard.
Louie was created, written and directed by Louis C.K., who stars as a fictionalized version of himself, a comedian and newly divorced father raising his two daughters in New York City. The show has a loose format atypical for television comedy series, consisting of largely unconnected storylines and segments (described as "extended vignettes") that revolve around Louie's life, punctuated by live stand-up performances.

Production
FX announced in July 2012 that it had renewed Louie for a fourth season to consist of 13 episodes, and was later confirmed in October 2012 that the season would be delayed from airing in summer 2013 to May 2014, to give more time for Louie C.K. to develop the season. C.K. said, "I want season four to go somewhere new...I'm looking back to when I did the first season and the time I took to do the show and decide which directions to go in and I want that back again. I want a little breathing room." In March 2014, FX announced the season would premiere on May 5, 2014, moving to Mondays and would air back-to-back episodes for seven consecutive weeks, containing an additional fourteenth episode. C.K. said that the fourth season would include a multi-part, connected storyline after the third episode.C.K. collaborated with comedian Steven Wright (who previously guest starred on the series as himself) on some of the scripts for the fourth season, and Wright is credited as a consulting producer for the season. According to guest star Jeremy Renner, Philip Seymour Hoffman was supposed to appear in an episode this season, however, Hoffman died in February 2014. Episodes 11 and 12, "In the Woods" have an extended run time of an hour and a half (with commercials).

Cast
Main cast
Louis C.K. as Louie

Recurring cast
Guest stars
Episodes
Reception
Reviews
The fourth season of Louie received universal acclaim from critics, receiving a Metacritic score of 93 out of 100, based on 28 reviews. Robert Llyod of the Los Angeles Times wrote that  "Each [episode] stands on its own as a TV art film, an independent work of short fiction." Andrew Romano of The Daily Beast wrote that "Season 4 is just as brilliant as the seasons that preceded it." On Rotten Tomatoes, the season has an approval rating of 93% with an average score of 8.9 out of 10 based on 43 reviews. The website's critical consensus reads, "Thanks to Louis C.K.'s unique brand of awkward, brutally honest humor, Louie remains one of the best written and most relatable comedies on television."

Ratings
The season 4 premiere received 941,000 total viewers, a 19 percent boost over last season's average.

Accolades
For the 30th TCA Awards, Louie won for Outstanding Achievement in Comedy and Louis C.K. received a nomination for Individual Achievement in Comedy. For the 4th Critics' Choice Television Awards, Louie received nominations for Best Comedy Series, C.K. for Best Actor in a Comedy Series, and Sarah Baker for Best Guest Performer in a Comedy Series. For the 66th Primetime Emmy Awards, the series was nominated for Outstanding Comedy Series, and Louie C.K. was nominated for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series and Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series for the episode "Elevator, Part 6", and won for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series for the episode "So Did the Fat Lady". For the 67th Writers Guild of America Awards, the series won for Best Comedy Series and C.K. won for Best Episodic Comedy for "So Did the Fat Lady". For the 21st Screen Actors Guild Awards, C.K. was nominated for Best Comedy Actor. For the 72nd Golden Globe Awards, C.K. was nominated for Best Actor – Television Series Musical or Comedy. For the 67th Directors Guild of America Awards, C.K. was nominated for Outstanding Directing – Comedy Series for the episode "Elevator Part 6".

Broadcast
The season premiered on OSN First Comedy HD in the Middle East on September 4, 2014.