Passage 1:
Finally (CeCe Peniston song)
"Finally" is a song by American singer-songwriter CeCe Peniston, released in September 1991 as her debut single from her first album, Finally (1992). It received critical acclaim, becoming Peniston's first (and biggest) hit song, peaking at number five on the US Billboard Hot 100 in January 1992. It is also her only US top-ten hit to date. Prior to that, the track was a major success on the Billboard Hot Dance Club Play chart, where it spent two weeks at number one in late 1991. In addition, a dance remix of the song, the "Choice Mix", peaked at number two on the UK Singles Chart in March 1992. The remix appeared on many dance music compilations in the early '90s. Its music video was directed by Claude Borenzweig.

Background and release
Peniston grew up in Phoenix and began writing pop songs during school. The words of "Finally"  were purportedly penned during a chemistry class, while thinking about dating in college. In 1989 and 1990, she won the Miss Black Arizona pageant, and took the Miss Galaxy pageant a short time later.
Her music career began in January 1991, when Felipe "DJ Wax Dawg" Delgado, her friend and a record producer based also in Phoenix, asked Peniston to record back-up vocals for Tonya Davis, a rapper known as Overweight Pooch. Though Overweight Pooch's album flopped on the market, Manny Lehman (a DJ and executive producer) had noticed the powerful voice of the back-up vocalist, Peniston. He offered Delgado a chance to produce a track for Peniston to cultivate her potential as a solo artist. Delgado called hometown friend and music producer, Rodney K. Jackson, to help co-produce Peniston's single, which would become "Finally".

Peniston was 21 years old when "Finally" was released. When asked about the song in a 2012 interview, Peniston said, "It was actually a poem that I had turned into a song, and it was the very first song that I had written. I was doing backup for someone else, and they asked if I had something else and I was like yeah, something I’ve written, and I didn’t know if they’d like it. You know, you don’t really understand your gifts at that point, so when he said I have a hit, I was just like okay. At the time I didn’t understand what it means to have a number one song, I really had no idea. They said you have a hit on your hands and you’re going to have to go to Europe. All of a sudden I was traveling the world, one show turned into two, that little girl from Arizona was going everywhere! You know, I had been here and there, a couple of trips, but nothing at all like this. It was overwhelming."
New versions of "Finally" were released in 1997 and 2011.

Composition
The remix of this song is based on the piano riff from the house music classic "Someday" by CeCe Rogers from 1987. The song is performed in the key of B minor with a tempo of 120 beats per minute, following a chord progression of G(9) – G/A – Bm, and Peniston's vocals span from B3 to D5. In 2017, Peniston told about recording the song, "It was a great experience making this song. I remember being in the studio with producer Felipe Delgado, and we didn't have the second verse written. I had forgotten some of the lyrics and just ad-libbed some of them–that "yeah-yeah" part. They ended up sampling that, and it became a big part of the song. It's amazing how those raw moments happen."

Chart performance
The song was released in the fall of 1991, where it became an instant dance anthem, peaking in October at the top of the Billboard Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart in the United States for two weeks, while achieving respectable chart success overseas the following year. The song was re-released in the United Kingdom, where it reached a new peak of number two in its second week at the UK Singles Chart, on March 22, 1992. It was held off reaching the top spot by Shakespears Sister's "Stay". "Finally" also charted at number-one in Zimbabwe and on the RPM Dance/Urban chart in Canada, and number eight in Australia and New Zealand. In Europe, the song reached number three in Belgium and number five in the Netherlands and Ireland. Following the single's success, Peniston completed her first album, Finally, in two months. The album was critically acclaimed, and Peniston celebrated a year-long run of awards success including the Billboard Award for Best New Artist (dance), and three ASCAP awards amongst numerous others. The song "Finally" has sold over 3 million copies to date.

Critical reception
J.D. Considine from The Baltimore Sun felt the song "is a delightful surprise, marrying a muscular, insinuating groove to Peniston's soulful, insistent vocals." Larry Flick from Billboard complimented it as "a delicious peak-hour houser that is in a vein similar to Alison Limerick's "Where Love Lives". Peniston wraps her lovely alto around a hook that seeps into the brain and body and never lets go." He also remarked that Peniston "proves her potential as a future diva on this brain-embedding, spine-stirring house anthem." Amy Linden from Entertainment Weekly commented, "The slammin’ house/pop single of the moment? It's CeCe Peniston's "Finally," and its sheer joy and verve." She explained further, "Grooving in the fabulousness of her newfound Mr. Right, and sorta amazed that it all happened, she wails deliciously, making you believe that true love will conquer all and that someday your prince (or princess) will come." Dave Sholin from the Gavin Report described it as a "bright and infectious" debut release and concluded, "I had a preview of this song back in July and have been in love with it ever since!" Dennis Hunt from Los Angeles Times viewed it as "lively".Pan-European magazine Music & Media stated that "this newcomer gives further evidence that dance is still developing into a more song-oriented direction. The violins give the tune the ambiance of "Backstabbers" by the O'Jays." Andy Beevers from Music Week complimented it as an "extremely classy and catchy garage-styled debut". A reviewer from People Magazine felt that it's "overflowing with verve and loaded up with joyous girlie glee", noting the "ecstatic, beat-heavy power" of the track. James Hamilton from the RM Dance Update labeled it as "cheerful wailing" and a "ex-Miss America's catchy Crystal Waters-type US pop smash". Adam Higginbotham from Select declared "Finally" as "a superb slice of feel-good pop music. From its bassline – purloined from Ce Ce (no relation) Rogers' classic garage tune 'Someday' — to the inanely cheery lyrics." Tom Doyle from Smash Hits viewed it as a "rousing house song". Steve Pick from St. Louis Post-Dispatch wrote that "this is a catchy disco number, building energy through repetition of the simple hookline and a solid bass/drum throb. Get on the dance floor to this one, and you'll move."

Retrospective response
Bill Lamb from About.com featured "Finally" in their list of "The Top 100 Best Party Songs", describing it as an "upbeat, celebratory song about love". Steven E. Flemming, Jr. from Albumism noted that it "skillfully melded the insistent grace of all that’s right about dance production values with grand vocals." AllMusic editor Craig Lytle felt that the song and its follow-up, "We Got a Love Thang", "employ that rapid dancehall groove better known as house music". Stopera and Galindo from BuzzFeed remarked, "When it comes to ‘90s dance songs you’d be hard-pressed to find another song that so perfectly incorporates other music genres that made the decade so great — i.e., R&B, house, and pop — which is what makes “Finally" the quintessential ‘90s dance song. And honestly, it's a feel-good hit! Just try being in a bad mood after listening to it!" A writer from Complex said that "this was the sound of the early 1990s, when everything was turning colorful and bright." Pop Rescue called it "a great track, with that fantastic hand-clap, bassline and piano opening", adding that Peniston's vocals are "sublime".

Music video
A music video was made for "Finally", directed by Claude Borenzweig. It is very simple, showing Peniston performing the song within a variety of shapes and colors, sometimes with a guy dancing. The video was later published by Vevo on YouTube in 2009, remastered in HD, and had generated more than 40 million views as of January 2023.

Impact and legacy
DJ Magazine ranked "Finally" number 64 in their list of "Top 100 Club Tunes" in 1998.VH1 ranked it number 29 in their list of the "100 Greatest Dance Songs" in 2000. [1]
MTV Dance ranked the song number 28 in their list of "The 100 Biggest '90s Dance Anthems of All Time" in November 2011. Heart TV ranked "Finally" number three in their list of "55 Biggest '90s Club Classics" in March 2017. BuzzFeed ranked the song number one in "The 101 Greatest Dance Songs of the '90s" in 2017, writing, "When it comes to ‘90s dance songs you’d be hard-pressed to find another song that so perfectly incorporates other music genres that made the decade so great — i.e., R&B, house, and pop — which is what makes “Finally" the quintessential ‘90s dance song." Slant Magazine ranked it number 37 in their list of "The 100 Best Dance Songs of All Time" in 2020. The Guardian ranked it number 66 in their "The 70 Greatest No 2 Singles – Ranked!" in 2022. Alexis Petridis wrote, "House music as pure pop-soul, "Finally" was a hymn to an idealised boyfriend sung by a former Miss Black Arizona." Same year, Pitchfork ranked it number 87 in their countdown of "The 250 Best Songs of the 1990s" in 2022.

Accolades
Music awards and nominations
Track listings and formats
Credits and personnel
Management

Executive producers – Manny Lehman, Mark Mazzetti
Recording studio – Aztec Studios, Phoenix, Arizona
Publishing – Wax Museum Music, Mainlot Music (BMI), Polygram Music

Charts
Certifications
Release history
Reissues
"Finally '97"
In 1997, "Finally" was remixed by Eric Kupper to enhance the overseas issue of Peniston's album Finally, which was re-released in Europe and Japan along with her greatest collection, The Best Of CeCe Peniston .
The new remixed version of the song titled "Classic Funk Mix" (a.k.a. "Finally '97") successfully re-entered the British charts, peaking on September 13 at number 26 on the UK Singles Chart, meaning Peniston had three chart entries with one and the same title (in March 92, in September 97).

Additional credits
Recording studio – Hysteria Recording
Publishing – PolyGram Music
Producer, engineering, programming, keyboards, guitar and bass – Eric Kupper
Remixing – Kupper, George Mitchell and Steven Doherty (as Sharp)
Design – Alex

Track listings and formats
Charts
Finally 2008
In the summer of 2008, the song was remixed by Kam Denny, an Australian DJ and producer, and Paul Zala, an electrohouse DJ based in Melbourne. Subtitled as "Kam Denny & Paul Zala Remix", or rather "Vandalism Remix", the promotional single was released in Australia on Bimbo Rock, a local indie dance/electro label formed by TV Rock. The new adaptation gained underground house music popularity and entered the local Club Tracks Chart, topping for four weeks at number one.

Additional credits
Producers and remixing – Kam Denny and Paul Zala

Charts
Finally 2011
On the twentieth anniversary of "Finally," Peniston made a number of additional remixes of the song for Paul Oakenfold, featuring Joyriders, and supported also by music video. Originally, the song was to be attached to her cancelled studio album CeCe.

Additional credits
Executive producer – Paul Oakenfold
Vocals – Peniston (re-recorded)
Performer – Joyriders
Producers and remixing – Roman Hunter, Digitalchord, Zen Freeman, Remy Le Duc, Mikael Nordgren (as Tiger Stripes), Chuckii Booker (as DJ Cii)
Vocal production – Kevin Lewis

Track listings and formats
Release #1

"Finally" (Roman Hunter Airplay Mix) – 2:58Release #2

"Finally" (Roman Hunter Remix) – 7:03
"Finally" (Digitalchord Remix) – 7:00
"Finally" (Zen Freeman & Remy Le Duc Remix) – 6:03
"Finally" (Tiger Stripes Remix) – 7:22
"Finally" (DJ Cii Remix) – 2:31Deep House Selection, Volume 6 (The Finest Deep House Tunes)

"Finally" (Tiger Stripes Radio Edit) – 3:15

In popular culture
The song features in the 1998 film Bimboland produced by Ariel Zeitoun. The 7-inch Choice Mix was used in the 1994 film The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert and featured on its soundtrack album. The song is also featured in the stage musical based on the film.For her ninth tour Showgirl: The Homecoming Tour that resumed on November 11, 2006, at Sydney Entertainment Centre (ended on January 23, 2007), Kylie Minogue used elements of Peniston's song when performing her 2000 comeback single "Spinning Around", co-written by Paula Abdul.In November 2009, pop musician Lady Gaga used excerpts of "Finally" (Vandalism Remix) for the opening of The Monster Ball Tour in her song "Dance in the Dark".In July 2014, British singer Matt Fishel included a cover version of the song on his virtual EP Cover Boy. The accompanying video won the category for Best Lyric Video at the 2014 LGBT-based RightOutTV Music & Video Award.In 2015, the song was also used in an advertisement for Ariel detergent in the Philippines, along with modified lyrics to promote the product. The commercial has since spawned numerous parodies poking fun at the campy nature of the commercial and the song used, with numerous people and fictional characters lip-syncing to the tune.The song was used as a lip-sync song during the ninth season of RuPaul's Drag Race. On the seventh episode contestants Nina Bo'nina Brown and Aja had to lip-sync to avoid elimination; Aja was eliminated.The song was also briefly featured in Season 2 Episode 9 of Dear White People.In 2021, a remixed version used for a commercial for the dating app Bumble. American supermarket chain Kroger, along with its subsidiary supermarket names, uses the song for its animated commercials, promoting grocery delivery at home.

See also
The Best Dance Album in the World... Ever!
List of number-one dance singles of 1991 (U.S.)
List of top 10 singles in 1992 (UK)
List of Dance Dance Revolution songs
List of songs that made the biggest jump in the top 50 on the ARIA Singles Chart
Passage 2:
Y.R.N. (Young Rich Niggas)
Y.R.N. (Young Rich Niggas) is the third mixtape by American hip hop group Migos. It was released on June 13, 2013. The album features notable guest appearances from rappers Gucci Mane, Trinidad James, Riff Raff and Soulja Boy. This mixtape is notable for the single "Versace", the single reached number 99 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart, number 31 on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart, number 23 on the US Hot Rap Songs chart and number 11 on the US Top Heatseekers chart. "Versace" was placed in multiple year-end lists of 2013. Diplo included it in his 2013 round-up set on BBC Radio 1. XXL named it one of the top five hip hop songs of 2013. The official music video, directed by Gabriel Hart, was released on September 30, 2013. It shows Migos and Zaytoven at a luxurious mansion, wearing Versace clothes and accessories. The video also features a snippet of Migos second single off the mixtape "Hannah Montana". As of April 2021, it has gained over 36 million views on YouTube. Y.R.N. later reached number 74 on the US Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart, their first mixtape to do so on the Billboard charts. The mixtape was premiered on LiveMixtapes.com, on 06/13/2013 and has over 7 million views and 500,000 downloads.  Offset only appears on some of the tracks, he was incarcerated in 2013 when Y.R.N. (Young Rich Niggas) came out.

Critical reception
Y.R.N. received favorable reviews from critics and was ranked as the third best mixtape of 2013 by Rolling Stone.

Track listing
Charts
Passage 3:
Tyga discography
The discography of American rapper Tyga consists of seven studio albums, three compilation albums, twenty mixtapes, sixty-seven singles (including thirty-four as a featured artist) and forty-six music videos. In 2008, Tyga released his first studio album, No Introduction, on the record label Decaydance Records. The album included the single "Coconut Juice" (featuring Travie McCoy), the song peaked at number 94 on the US Billboard Hot 100, becoming Tyga's first song to appear on the chart. In 2010, Tyga and Virginia singer Chris Brown released the collaborative mixtape Fan of a Fan (2010), which included their hit single "Deuces": the song peaked at number 14 on the Billboard Hot 100 and became Tyga's first song to chart on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart, peaking at number one.The release of Tyga's second studio album (and his first to be released on the record label Young Money Entertainment), Careless World: Rise of the Last King (2012), was preceded by the release of the singles "Far Away", "Still Got It", "Rack City" and "Faded", with all four appearing on the Billboard Hot 100. "Rack City" was the most commercially successful single from the album, become Tyga's first single to reach the top 10 of the Billboard Hot 100, and also charting in Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom. Following several delays to its release date, Careless World: Rise of the Last King debuted at number 4 on the US Billboard 200 and at number one on both the US Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums and Top Rap Albums charts. His third studio album, Hotel California, was released on April 9, 2013.As of February 2017, Tyga has sold 600,000 albums and 12.2 million digital singles as a solo artist. His 2018 song "Taste" later became the best selling single of his career.

Albums
Studio albums
Collaboration albums
Compilation albums
Mixtapes
Singles
As lead artist
As featured artist
Promotional singles
Other charted and certified songs
Guest appearances
Music videos
Notes
Passage 4:
Wobble (song)
"Wobble" is the second single by rapper V.I.C. from his debut album Beast. The single was produced by Mr. Collipark. Before recording this song, he made a track called "Wobble (Skit)" to introduce the song "Wobble". Both tracks are on the album. Atlanta's V-103 former radio personality Frank Ski is featured on the song on the intro and bridge, but isn't credited as a featured artist. The song grew in popularity after inspiring a dance. "Wobble" finally made its debut on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart at number 89 on June 2, 2011, almost three years after its release, and has since peaked at number 77. It went on to debut at number 94 on the US Billboard Hot 100 on January 7, 2012. In 2020, the song made a resurgence after trending on the video sharing platform TikTok.

Track listing
Promo CD single
"Wobble (Skit)" (Main)
"Wobble" (Song)
"Wobble" (Instrumental)
"Wobble" (Acapella)

Charts
Certifications
Passage 5:
Finally (CeCe Peniston album)
Finally is the debut album by American singer CeCe Peniston, released on January 30, 1992, by A&M Records. Prior to the release of this album, Peniston released her debut single "Finally", which topped the US Billboard Hot Dance Music Club Play chart on October 26, 1991, peaking eventually at number five on the Billboard Hot 100 and at number two in the UK Singles Chart. The album yielded two additional singles which achieved dance number one status in the US; "We Got a Love Thang", co-written by Chantay Savage, and "Keep On Walkin'", written in collaboration with Kym Sims. Both songs entered the UK Singles Chart top 10 and the Billboard Hot 100 top 20 in the US. Despite the success of the singles, the album itself climbed only to number seventy on the US Billboard 200. However, during its thirty-six weeks long presence in the chart it sold over 554,000 copies in the US. The album peaked at number ten on the UK Albums Chart. The total worldwide sales of the album surpassed 3,000,000 units. Two further tracks were released from the album which were more in the R&B field; "Inside That I Cried" charted at number ten in the US R&B chart and at number forty-two in the UK, while "Crazy Love" peaked at number thirty-one in the US and at number forty-four in the UK. The album was part of the resurgence of dance music in the United States during the mid-1990s.

Critical reception
Finally received generally mixed to positive reviews from music critics. Craig Lytle from AllMusic lauded the album in his review as "outstanding", and it being a "solidly produced collection". Giving the set four out of five stars, he wrote that the album warranted an additional single release. Amy Linden from Entertainment Weekly stated that Peniston has "a good enough voice" (which she stressed as a novelty among dance-music dollies), but apart from its title single, plus the funky ode "Virtue", she ranked the rest of album a B− for being "mainly standard issue and pretty dull". Elena Oumano from Los Angeles Times wrote, "Like Patti LaBelle, CeCe Peniston scales a broad range of vocal peaks with electrifying ease, but where LaBelle stoops to played-out histrionics, Peniston’s operatic soul vibrates with freewheeling, youthful gusto on this debut album. While this exuberance works best when matched to a hammering house mix, Peniston’s heroic gymnastics ring genuine even in ballads. She just seems to feel more than ordinary folk. But that astonishing voice demands exceptional material; “Lifeline” and other pedestrian vehicles seem all the weaker for Peniston’s formidable gift."

Accoladees
Finally was nominated for Best R&B/Soul Album – Female at the 1993 Soul Train Music Awards, but lost to What's the 411? by Mary J. Blige.

Chart performance
Initially, Finally entered the albums charts overseas. On February 2, 1992, the album debuted in the UK Albums Chart at number ten, its peak, spending nineteen weeks in total on the chart. On February 15, the album appeared for the first time in the Canadian Albums Chart at number sixty, as well as on the US Billboard 200 at number ninety-nine. In both countries, the album reached its peak position in its fourth week on the chart; number twenty in Canada, where it spent twenty-two weeks in the chart, and number seventy in the US, where it spent thirty-six weeks on the chart, of which eighteen were within the Top 100. In the Dutch MegaCharts, the album began its twelve-week run on February 22 at number ninety, reaching number thirty-one. In Billboard's component chart, the album debuted on the R&B/Hip-Hop chart on March 7 at number eighty-eight, and climbed to number thirteen on August 8, spending fifty-two weeks in the chart. In addition, the album charted for two weeks in Austria, peaking there at number thirty-eight, its debut, on March 8.

Track listing
Notes

^[a]  signifies an additional producer

Personnel
Technical

Producers: Daniel Abraham, Felipe Delgado, R.K. Jackson, Steve Lindsey, Brian Malouf, David Morales, DeVante Swing
Engineers: Craig Marcus, Tony Maserati, Rob Paustian, John Poppo, Larry Stur
Assistant engineers: Lolly Grodner
Mixing: Daniel Abraham, Terry Burrus, David Morales, DeVante Swing, Elliot Peters
Re-mixing: Brian MaloufPerformers and musicians

Arrangers: Steve Lindsey, DeVante Swing
Vocal arrangements: Danny Madden
Drums: Ed Greene
Percussion: Lenny Castro, Bashiri Johnson, David Morales, Steve Lindsey
Drum programming: Felipe Delgado, R.K. Jackson, Peter "Ski" Schwartz
Keyboards, synthesizers: John Barnes, Robbie Buchanan, Terry Burrus, Claude Gaudette, Khris Kellow, Eric Kupper, Steve Lindsey, Peter "Ski" Schwartz
Guitars: Charles Fearing, Grant Geissman, Dean Parks
Saxophone: Brandon Fields

Charts
Promo EP
Along with the release of Peniston's single "Keep On Walkin'", a four-track promo EP titled The Heart and Soul of CeCe Peniston (Four Selections from Finally) was issued in the United States in support of Finally.
Apart from her third US Dance number-one hit "Keep On Walkin'", the EP also featured "Crazy Love", which was also promoted with a single, as well as two other songs from Finally—"I See Love", and "You Win, I Win, We Lose" (with background vocals by Malaika).
The artwork of the EP included altered pictures on its front and back cover.

Track listing
Personnel
CeCe Peniston – lead vocals
Steve Hurley – production
Daniel Abraham – production
DeVanté Swing – production, arrangement
Darryl Pearson – co-production, arrangement
Felipe Delgado – production
Rodney K. Jackson – production
Rusty D'Agnolo – additional production, engineering
Brian Malouf – additional production, remixing
Larry Sturm – engineering
Tony Maserati – engineering
Lolly Grodner – engineering assistanceRecording details

Songs recorded and mixed at Tangle Wood Studios, Chicago; Right Track Studios, NYC; Chung King Studios, NYC
Songs published by Last Song Inc, George You've Got It Music/O'Hara Music/Music Corp (BMI)/IDG (ASCAP), Big Arm Music (ASCAP), and Urban Tracks Music/Mainlot Music (Broadcast Music Incorporated)
Administration by Third Coast Music (ASCAP)
Passage 6:
Light Poles and Pine Trees
Light Poles and Pine Trees is the third album from the southern hip hop duo Field Mob, and their first, and only, under the Disturbing tha Peace imprint. It was released in stores on June 20, 2006. Originally, the premiere single from the album was to be the track Friday Night but did not make the final album cut, although it was still released in early 2006 as a radio promo and appeared on international editions as an extra bonus track. Instead the first official single from the album was the Jazze Pha produced song "So What" featuring R&B singer Ciara. This has become the duo's most successful hit to date, climbing to #10 on the US Billboard Hot 100, and #3 and #4 on the US Hot Rap Tracks and US Hot R&B/Hip Hop Songs charts, respectively.The album itself achieved #1 on the US Billboard Top Rap Albums and #7 on the US Billboard 200. It has sold over 200,000 copies.The track "Georgia" is a reprise, originally appearing on the compilation Disturbing tha Peace.
The track "Baby Bend Over" is believed to be the original source of the infamous Chop snare, a widely used electronic snare drum sample.

Track listing
"1, 2, 3" – 4:18
"My Wheels" – 4:11
"So What" (featuring Ciara) – 3:36
"Baby Bend Over" (featuring Polow da Don) – 3:48
"Smilin'" (featuring Ludacris) – 4:18
"Area Code 229" – 4:35
"Blacker the Berry (Skit)" - 1:09
"Blacker the Berry" – 4:25
"I Hate You" – 3:43
"At the Park" – 3:40
"Eat 'Em Up, Beat 'Em Up" – 4:59
"Pistol Grip" – 4:14
"Sorry Baby" (featuring Bobby V) – 3:26
"It's Over" – 3:32
"Georgia" (featuring Jamie Foxx & Ludacris) – 4:23
"Friday Night" (International Editions Only) - 3:45

Charts
Passage 7:
Sam Hunt discography
American singer Sam Hunt has released two studio albums, one mixtape, three extended plays, ten singles, and ten music videos. Hunt signed a record deal with MCA Nashville and launched his musical career with the release of the single "Raised on It" in 2013; it received moderate chart success, peaking at number 49 on Hot Country Songs. Then came the launch of his debut studio album Montevallo in October 2014. It topped the Top Country Albums chart and peaked at number three on the Billboard 200. It was certified 2× Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and reached a million sales in the country by February 2016. The album also peaked at number two on the Canadian Albums Chart and received a Gold certification from Music Canada. Montevallo spawned five singles, including the international hit "Take Your Time", which peaked at number 20 on the Billboard Hot 100 and topped Hot Country Songs; it was later certified 4× Platinum by the RIAA.

Albums
Studio albums
Mixtapes
Extended plays
Singles
As lead artist
As featured artist
Promotional singles
Other charted songs
Music videos
Writing credits
Notes
Passage 8:
Finger Eleven
Finger Eleven is a Canadian rock band from Burlington, Ontario, formed in 1990. They have released seven studio albums (six as Finger Eleven and one as Rainbow Butt Monkeys), with their album The Greyest of Blue Skies bringing them into the mainstream. Their 2003 self-titled album achieved Gold status in the United States and Platinum in Canada, largely from the success of the single "One Thing", which marked the band's first placing on the US Hot 100 Chart at number 16. Their 2007 album, Them vs. You vs. Me launched the single "Paralyzer", which went on to top the Canadian Hot 100 and both US rock charts, as well as reaching No. 6 on the US Hot 100 and No. 12 on the Australian Singles Chart. They won the Juno Award for Rock Album of the Year in 2008. The same album was later certified gold in the US and multi-platinum in Canada. They released their sixth studio album, Life Turns Electric, on October 5, 2010; it was nominated as Best Rock Album of the Year at the Juno Awards of 2011. Five Crooked Lines, their 7th studio album, was released in 2015. Between 1995 and 2016, Finger Eleven was among the top 75 best-selling Canadian artists in Canada and among the top 25 best-selling Canadian bands in Canada.

History
Letters from Chutney (1990–1996)
Finger Eleven first formed at Lester B. Pearson High School in Burlington, Ontario as Stone Soul Picnic, then changed their name to Rainbow Butt Monkeys. One of their first shows was at a school Christmas concert in 1990, and they won the 97.7 CHTZ (Hits) HTZ FM's Rock Search competition. At the time, the band's lineup consisted of Scott Anderson (vocals), James Black (guitar, vocals), Rick Jackett (guitar), Sean Anderson (bass), and Rob Gommerman (drums).
They were signed by Mercury Records and, after releasing four EPs, they issued the album Letters from Chutney (1995), which received generally favourable reviews. In 1996, they were taken on by the management company Coalition Entertainment.

Tip (1997–1999)
In 1997, the band changed its name to Finger Eleven, which came from a demo of their song "Thin Spirits". Their first album under the new name was Tip, produced by Arnold Lanni (Our Lady Peace). Mercury dropped the band after the album's release; they were then signed to Wind-up Records, which re-released the record in 1998. During this period, the band toured heavily, as part of Edgefest, the Vans Warped Tour and, several times, opening for Creed and Fuel. In 1999, the track "Quicksand" was used in the TV series Roswell (uncredited).Following the release of Tip, drummer Rob Gommerman left the band. He was replaced by Rich Beddoe, whom James Black had met at an Alice in Chains concert in Toronto several years earlier.

The Greyest of Blue Skies (2000–2002)
In 2000, Finger Eleven released The Greyest of Blue Skies, again produced by Arnold Lanni. The album was commercially successful in Canada and was certified Gold. This was another period of heavy touring, with the band playing X-Fest, Edgefest, K-Rockathon, and the four-city Canadian festival Summersault 2000. Finger Eleven also began appearing on its own, and headlining concerts with other bands.A song from this album, "Suffocate", was used in the 2000 film Scream 3. In 2001, the song "Drag You Down" was used in the animated sitcom Daria. In 2002, Finger Eleven covered and remixed the entrance theme for wrestler Kane, a song they called "Slow Chemical", which was recorded and mixed at Metalworks Studios in Mississauga, Ontario. Kane used the song from 2002 to 2008. It was also used in WrestleMania 20 (2004), WrestleMania 22 (2006), WWE Backlash (2006), WrestleMania 23 (2007), and in the video game WWE SmackDown vs. Raw 2008, as well as on the soundtrack for 2004's film The Punisher.

Finger Eleven (2003–2006)
The band's 2003 self-titled album, Finger Eleven, was produced by Johnny K. This album, characterized by screamed vocals over repetitive rock guitar rhythms, included the hit single "One Thing", which earned them their first US Gold and Canadian Platinum albums. "One Thing" reached No.16 on Billboard's U.S charts, and appeared in the TV shows Scrubs, Smallville, and Third Watch (uncredited). It was also used on World Wrestling Entertainment's 2007 edition of Raw, during a tribute video for Chris Benoit, who had killed himself and his family on June 25. In 2004, Finger Eleven won the MuchMusic Video Award for Best Video for "One Thing" and performed the song on Live with Regis and Kelly and The Tonight Show with Jay Leno.In 2003, the Finger Eleven song "Good Times" was used in the soundtrack for the snowboard racing game SSX 3. "Good Times" and "Conversations" were used in the Nintendo video game 1080° Avalanche. In 2004, the song "Stay in Shadow" was used in the video game Burnout 3: Takedown. In 2005, "Thousand Mile Wish" was used in the soundtrack of the superhero film Elektra.The band followed this success with a tour of North America, Europe, and Australia, from 2003 to 2005. They played numerous festivals and opened for Evanescence, Nickelback, and The Tragically Hip.

Them vs. You vs. Me (2007–2009)
Finger Eleven's fifth studio album, Them vs. You vs. Me, was released on March 6, 2007, with Johnny K returning as producer. The style on this album was more mellow than previous work. The lead single, "Paralyzer", became the band's biggest hit; it spent fifty weeks on the charts and reached No. 6 on the U.S. Hot 100 in November 2007, as well as attaining the No. 1 spot in Canada and on U.S. rock charts. The album also featured the singles "Falling On", "I'll Keep Your Memory Vague", and "Talking to the Walls".
"Paralyzer" was included in the soundtrack of the 2007 Victoria's Secret Fashion Show, in a 2008 episode of the TV series Gossip Girl and, in 2009, in the soundtrack of the video game Band Hero.
In December 2007, the DVD Us-vs-Then-vs-Now was released, with footage spanning the band's career up to that point.Them vs. You vs. Me was certified Gold in the U.S. in March 2008, peaking at No. 14 on the Hot 100. The album also won Rock Album of the Year at the Juno Awards of 2008. At the ceremony, the band performed live on national television with the Calgary Youth Orchestra.During this period, Finger Eleven continued to tour heavily, playing various festivals and numerous concerts with Seether, 3 Doors Down, and Kid Rock. They also performed at the 2007 NHL Awards Show in Toronto and, in 2009, played a show for Canadian and US troops in Kandahar, Afghanistan

Life Turns Electric (2010–2012)
Finger Eleven's sixth album, Life Turns Electric, was released in October 2010. The first single from the record, "Living in a Dream", was released on iTunes in July of that year; it added elements of funk rock and dance rock. A music video for the second single, "Whatever Doesn't Kill Me", was released in January 2011. The video was directed by Alon Isocianu. The remaining singles, "Stone Soul" and "Pieces Fit", were released without music videos. The album received mixed reviews. It peaked at No 88 on the Billboard Charts.Finger Eleven toured in support of the record throughout 2011 and 2012, again playing numerous festivals and concerts with Seether, Papa Roach, and Three Days Grace.

Five Crooked Lines (2013–2016)
At the end of 2013, drummer Rich Beddoe left the band; he was replaced by Steve Molella the following year. In the interim, Finger Eleven recorded their next album with session drummer Chris Powell. Also in 2013, Wind-Up Records' catalogue was sold to the Bicycle Music Company which, in 2015, merged with Concord Music Group, so that Finger Eleven's new label became Concord Bicycle Music.
The band toured during the summer of 2015 with Three Days Grace.
(In 2015, former Three Days Grace frontman Adam Gontier would team up with Beddoe, Staind guitarist Mike Mushok, and bassist Corey Lowery to form the supergroup Saint Asonia).Finger Eleven issued their seventh album, Five Crooked Lines, on July 31, 2015, and released the lead single "Wolves and Doors" to Canadian radio. The album received favourable reviews, charted for one week, and reached No 44 on the charts. They set out on their cross-Canada Fall of the Hammer Tour in support of the release. In some markets, the band participated with media partners in an opening-act contest.

Twentieth anniversary of Tip and Rainbow Butt Monkeys reunion (2017–present)
Finger Eleven scheduled three shows in southern Ontario to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of the Canadian release of Tip, on March 23 in Burlington, March 24 in St. Catharines, and March 31 in Toronto. All three of these shows had a similar format: there was an exclusively acoustic set, with Q&A before the show. For the main event, the band played Tip in its entirety; this was followed by an encore of Best of the Rest, a selection of band favourites from their other albums.On June 9, 2018, the rockers performed as Rainbow Butt Monkeys for the first time since 1997, playing at Burlington's Sound of Music Festival and showcasing songs from their debut album, Letters from Chutney. They have since played festivals and concerts throughout North America.On May 10, 2023, the band released a music video for their song "Together Right", their first new material in over seven years, from their upcoming compilation album.

Band members
Current
Scott Anderson – lead vocals (1990–present)
James Black – lead guitar, backing vocals (1990–present)
Rick Jackett – rhythm guitar (1990–present)
Sean Anderson – bass (1990–present)
Steve Molella – drums (2014–present)Past

Rob Gommerman – drums (1990–1998)
Rich Beddoe – drums (1998–2013)Session musicians

Chris Powell – drums (2014)

Timeline
Discography
Studio albums

Letters from Chutney (1995) (as Rainbow Butt Monkeys)
Tip (1997)
The Greyest of Blue Skies (2000)
Finger Eleven (2003)
Them vs. You vs. Me (2007)
Life Turns Electric (2010)
Five Crooked Lines (2015)

Awards and nominations
See also
Canadian rock
Music of Canada
Passage 9:
Nu Nu
"Nu Nu" is the second single of Chicago house-musc artist Lidell Townsell,which featured duo M.T.F. The song was released from his 1992 Mercury/PolyGram Records album release Harmony.

Chart performance
"Nu Nu" reached #1 on the US Hot Dance Music/Maxi Singles chart and #2 on the US Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart. It was #26 on the Billboard Hot 100 and #44 on the US Hot Hip-Hop & R&B Singles.

FannyPack version
New York's hip hop/electronica group FannyPack covered the song, renaming it "Nu Nu (Yeah Yeah)," in 2005. The Double J & Haze Extended Mix of this version appeared on the soundtrack of the 2006 film "Stick It" and on the soundtrack of the 2009 film "Fired Up!"This version was used in promos by American television network NBC on its weeknight talk show Late Night with Jimmy Fallon during 2010.

Austin Mahone/Pitbull Mmm Yeah sampled version
The 2014 song “Mmm Yeah,” sung by Austin Mahone and featuring Pitbull, heavily samples the lyrics and verses from “Nu Nu” and most notably samples the chorus.
Passage 10:
Birdman discography
The discography of American rapper Birdman consists of 5 studio albums (4 as a solo artist, and 1 collaborative album with rapper Lil Wayne), 2 mixtapes, 23 music videos, 48 singles, including 23 as a featured artist, and 7 promotional singles. In 2002, Birdman released his debut studio album Birdman (also known under the title Baby aka the #1 Stunna) under the recording name Baby. It peaked at number 24 on the US Billboard 200, spending 23 weeks on the chart. Three singles were released from the album; the first, "Do That...", reached number 33 on the US Billboard Hot 100, and the second, "What Happened to That Boy", reached number 45 on the same chart. The third single, "Baby You Can Do It", only charted on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Singles Sales chart. In 2003, Birdman collaborated with singer Ginuwine on the single "Hell Yeah" and rapper Bow Wow on the single "Let's Get Down", which reached numbers 17 and 14 respectively on the Hot 100.In 2005, Birdman released his second album Fast Money. It peaked at number 9 on the Billboard 200, and the album's two singles, "Get Your Shine On" and "Neck of the Woods", both charted in the top 75 of the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. In 2006, Birdman released Like Father, Like Son, a collaboration album with fellow rapper Lil Wayne. It peaked at number three on the Billboard 200 and topped the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums and Top Rap Albums charts. Like Father, Like Son produced four singles, including "Stuntin' Like My Daddy", which peaked at number 21 on the Hot 100. Birdman's third studio album 5 * Stunna was released in 2007, and included the singles "Pop Bottles" – which peaked at number 38 on the Hot 100 – "100 Million" and "I Run This".
Birdman's fourth studio album Priceless was released in 2009. It peaked at number 33 on the Billboard 200, number 5 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart and number 3 on the Top Rap Albums chart. Priceless included four singles; "Always Strapped", which peaked at number 54 on the Hot 100, "Written on Her", "Money to Blow", which peaked at number 26 on the Hot 100 and was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), and "4 My Town (Play Ball)", which peaked at number 92 on the Hot 100. In 2010, Birdman, Lil Wayne and singer Jay Sean appeared on the Kevin Rudolf single "I Made It (Cash Money Heroes)", which reached number 21 on the Hot 100 and charted in Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. Since 2010, Birdman has also released the singles "Loyalty", "Fire Flame", "I Get Money", "Y.U. Mad" and "Born Stunna", all of which have reached the top 65 of the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.

Albums
Studio albums
Collaboration albums
Mixtapes
Collaborative mixtapes
Singles
As lead artist
As featured artist
Promotional singles
Other charted and certified songs
Guest appearances
Music videos
As lead artist
See also
Big Tymers discography
Cash Money Millionaires discography

Notes