Passage 1:
Elvis' Christmas Album
Elvis' Christmas Album (also reissued as It's Christmas Time) is the third studio album and first Christmas album by  American singer and musician Elvis Presley on RCA Victor, LOC -1035, a deluxe limited edition, released October 15, 1957, and recorded at Radio Recorders in Hollywood. It has been reissued in numerous different formats since its first release. It spent four weeks at No. 1 on the Billboard Top Pop Albums chart, and was the first of two Christmas-themed albums Presley would record, the other being Elvis Sings the Wonderful World of Christmas, released in 1971. The publication Music Vendor listed Elvis' Christmas Album on their singles charts for two weeks in December 1957 – January 1958, with a peak position of No. 49.
According to the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), Elvis' Christmas Album along with its reissues has shipped at least 17 million copies in the United States. It is the first Presley title to attain Diamond certification by the RIAA, and is also the best-selling Christmas album of all time in the United States. With total sales of more 20 million copies worldwide, it remains the world's best-selling Christmas album and one of the best-selling albums of all time.

Content
The original 1957 LP consisted of six popular Christmas songs, two traditional Christmas carols and four gospel songs which had been previously released on the EP Peace in the Valley, catalogue EPA 4054, issued March 1957, peaking at No. 3 on the Pop albums chart and at No. 39 on the singles chart. The two album sides are divided into a program of secular Christmas songs on side one, with two traditional Christmas carols and the gospel numbers on side two. These included two spirituals by innovator Thomas A. Dorsey, "Peace in the Valley" and "Take My Hand, Precious Lord". Coincidentally, A Jolly Christmas from Frank Sinatra, released the previous month, was also divided into secular and traditional sides.
While most of the songs selected were traditional Christmas fare, such as "White Christmas" and "Silent Night", two new songs by regular suppliers of material for Presley were commissioned. One was "Santa Bring My Baby Back (to Me)" and the other (selected by Presley to open the album), was a blues-based rock and roll number, "Santa Claus Is Back in Town", written by Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller. This writer/producer team was responsible for some of 1950s rhythm and blues and rock and roll's most finely-honed satire in their work with the Coasters, as well as penning "Hound Dog" for Willie Mae Thornton and providing Presley with some of his biggest hits, including "Jailhouse Rock" and "Don't".
Presley asked the pair to come up with another Christmas song during sessions for the album; within a few minutes, they had the song written and ready for recording. Originally titled "Christmas Blues", this slyly risqué number is given a full-throated treatment by Presley who, aided by the gritty ensemble playing from his band, was determined to ensure that this Christmas album would not be easily ignored. Much of the remaining program was performed in a more traditional manner appropriate to the solemnity of Christmas, although Presley's innate sense of occasion shone through on his left-of-center reading of Ernest Tubb's 1949 hit, "Blue Christmas".
"Silent Night" and "O Little Town of Bethlehem" were arranged by Presley himself.
The Bing Crosby holiday perennial "White Christmas", which appeared every year on the Billboard charts from 1942 to 1962, became the center of controversy upon the album's release, with calls by the song's composer Irving Berlin to have the song, and the entire album, banned from radio airplay. After hearing Presley's version of his song, which Berlin saw as a "profane parody of his cherished yuletide standard", he ordered his staff in New York to telephone radio stations across the United States, demanding the song be discontinued from radio play. While most US radio stations ignored Berlin's request, at least one disc jockey was fired for playing a song from the album, and most Canadian stations refused to play the album.The controversy was, ironically, fueled by Presley's performance of the song in a style mirroring the version by Clyde McPhatter's group, The Drifters, which had been a Top 10 hit on the R&B singles chart in 1954 and 1955. Unlike Presley's recording, however, their version attracted virtually no adverse reaction, and certainly no reported opposition from Berlin. Part of the reason that The Drifters' version of "White Christmas" was less controversial was that this version was played only on black radio stations. Presley's version brought greater attention to The Drifters' version which gained prominence with its inclusion in the 1990 movie Home Alone.

Packaging
Original 1957 copies of Elvis' Christmas Album (LOC-1035) were issued with a red booklet-like album cover (as shown above) featuring promotional photos from Presley's third movie Jailhouse Rock. Even rarer than the cover and record itself is a gold foil price tag-shaped "gift giving" sticker attached to the shrink wrap, reading "TO __________, FROM _____________, ELVIS SINGS", followed by a list of the tracks. Original copies with the gold sticker intact on the shrink wrap have proven to be among the most valuable of Presley's albums. Adding to its already high value are limited red vinyl albums and album covers with gold print down the spine.
Record labels for all original 1957 pressings are black with all-silver print, the famous RCA Victor "His Master's Voice" dog logo at the top of the label, and "LONG 331⁄3 PLAY" at the bottom.

45 RPM releases
The other new composition on the album, "Santa, Bring My Baby Back to Me" was paired with "Santa Claus Is Back in Town", and issued as the UK single concurrently with the album's release. The single reached number seven on the UK Singles Chart in November 1957.No singles were issued in the US until 1964, when "Blue Christmas" was paired with "Wooden Heart", and reached No. 1 on the Billboard Christmas Singles chart; however, a pairing of "Blue Christmas" b/w "White Christmas" became a Top 20 UK hit in late 1964. "Santa Claus Is Back In Town"/"Blue Christmas" was a 1965 single release for the US market, and reached No. 4 on the Billboard Christmas Singles chart. "Blue Christmas" would re-enter the Christmas or Holiday Singles chart several times in the years that follow.Two different EPs, Elvis Sings Christmas Songs, EPA 4108 in December 1957, and Christmas with Elvis, EPA 4340 in December 1958, divided the eight Christmas numbers between them. The former topped the newly established Billboard EP Chart, while the latter failed to chart.

Reissues
First reissue on RCA Victor
Elvis' Christmas Album was reissued two years after its first release in October 1959 while Presley was on duty in Germany. The deluxe fold-out cover was replaced with a regular cover with a close-up of Elvis as he posed against an outdoor, snowy backdrop. The album continued to reach the album charts each year until 1962, eventually selling more than three million copies in the U.S.

Second reissue on RCA Camden
In 1971, Elvis recorded a new Christmas album, Elvis Sings the Wonderful World of Christmas; The original Elvis' Christmas Album went out of print, but continued interest in the album prompted RCA to reissue a revised and truncated version on its budget label RCA Camden in November 1970. This reissue replaced the four gospel tracks from the Peace in the Valley EP with the 1966 holiday single "If Every Day Was Like Christmas", along with the 1970 non-seasonal B-side "Mama Liked the Roses", issued as the flip to Elvis's top ten single "The Wonder of You" and originating from Presley's acclaimed 1969 Memphis sessions; neither track had been available on LP format previously. With ten tracks and a shorter running time, it fit the standard for RCA's budget Camden label issues at the time. The religious and secular Christmas songs were also mixed. The initial cover of this revised version echoed that of the 1958 reissue, except a more recent photograph with Elvis wearing a blue racing jacket with two white stripes on the left was used from the set of the 1967 movie Speedway. The album was also released in the UK with an album cover that featured Elvis's face from the 1970 Camden release in a circle in the middle surrounded in white with the title and the song selections in red. The four Peace in the Valley tracks were reissued the next year on the RCA Camden compilation You'll Never Walk Alone.

Third reissue on Pickwick
During the mid-1970s, RCA leased the rights to some of its Camden recordings to the budget reissue label Pickwick Records. Pickwick reissued the 10-track Camden Christmas album in 1975 with yet another cover design, Elvis's photo from the RCA Camden version surrounded by red ribbons with holly underneath and a dark blue background. Following Presley's unexpected death in August 1977, the Pickwick LP was advertised and sold on television by mail order to enormous sales, later certified by the RIAA as selling in excess of ten million copies. Demand for Presley's recordings skyrocketed after his death and RCA eventually reclaimed the reissue rights to its Camden titles from Pickwick. The Christmas Album was reissued in the 1980s on LP and compact disc as an RCA Special Products release on the RCA Camden label and on CD in Canada in the RCA Camden Classics series. This reissue, with its Pickwick cover art but carrying RCA logos, remained in print throughout the 1990s; the track listing was unchanged from the original 1970 RCA Camden LP release.

Other reissues
In 1976, the album was reissued on cassette with the title Blue Christmas; this reissue also had an alternate track listing. In 1985, the album was reissued again but with a new title, It's Christmas Time; shortly after, RCA reissued the original 1957 version of the album with a recreation of its original cover art and gatefold sleeve on LP an CD. In 1995, RCA/BMG Special Products again reissued the Camden/Pickwick compilation retitled Elvis Christmas with new cover art. By the second decade of the 21st Century, It's Christmas Time had become the second biggest selling album in the series, earning a 4× Platinum certification on March 8, 2018, prompting the original 1957 version to be available once again in the 2016 60 CD boxed set containing all of Presley's original RCA albums, Elvis Presley – The RCA Album Collection.
In the January 5, 2019 issue of Billboard, It's Christmas Time appeared for the first time inside the top 40 albums of the Billboard 200 charts, placing at number 25.
All of the above tracks are also available on several other RCA compilations of Presley's Christmas recordings, including Christmas Peace from 2003 and Elvis Christmas (a different, expanded version of the 1995 issue) from 2006. All of the tracks are also available on the 1992 RCA boxed set The King of Rock 'n' Roll: The Complete 50's Masters. In late 2007, Speaker's Corner Records from Germany reissued the album on a high-quality heavy vinyl pressing; this reissue also featured a reproduction of the original album cover and RCA Victor label from 1957. In addition, in 2010, a DVD was released in a series from Sony Music called The Yule Log DVD, in which the music from Elvis' Christmas Album (but without "I'll Be Home for Christmas") is featured with three different holiday visuals (one of them the yule log of the series' title). The original LP cover is featured on the DVD menu.

Track listing
Camden / Pickwick edition
Notes

^a  signifies arranged by

Personnel
The Blue Moon BoysElvis Presley – lead vocals, acoustic rhythm guitar
Scotty Moore – electric lead guitar
Bill Black – bass
D. J. Fontana – drumsThe JordanairesNeal Matthews - backing vocals
Hugh Jarrett - backing vocals
Gordon Stoker – backing vocals, piano (tracks B3-B5)
Hoyt Hawkins – backing vocals, organ (track B6)Additional Personnel
Dudley Brooks – piano (tracks A1-B2, B6)
Millie Kirkham - backing vocals (tracks A1-B2)

Charts
Certifications
See also
List of best-selling albums
List of Billboard number-one albums of 1957
List of Billboard 200 number-one albums of 1958

Notes
Passage 2:
Today (Elvis Presley album)
Today is the twenty-second studio album by American singer Elvis Presley, released on May 7, 1975 by RCA Records. The album featured the country and pop music sound typical of Elvis during the 1970s, as well as a new rock and roll song, "T-R-O-U-B-L-E", which was released as its first single and went Top 40 in the US. "Bringing It Back" was its second single in the US. The album also features covers of songs by Perry Como, Tom Jones, The Pointer Sisters, Billy Swan, Faye Adams, The Statler Brothers and Charlie Rich.

Content
The Today sessions were held in RCA's Studio C, Hollywood, Los Angeles, California, March 10–12, 1975, and marked the last time Presley would record in a studio. He last recorded at Studio C, Hollywood in 1972 where he recorded the gold records "Burning Love" and "Separate Ways". At this time, Elvis was 40 years old. He was accompanied by his then-current girlfriend, Sheila Ryan. In the 2005 Follow That Dream reissue of the album, Presley can be heard saying "step up here Sheila, let me sing to ya baby" on Take 1 of Don McLean's "And I Love You So". He continued to make "And I Love You So" and "Fairytale" a part of his live concerts until his death. On stage, he often referred to "Fairytale" as the story of his life.
"Green, Green Grass of Home" was released as a single in the UK, where it went Top 30, and also received US airplay. Presley was a big fan of Tom Jones' version of the song; while travelling, he would repeatedly have his friends call the local radio stations to request it.

Reissues
In 2005 Today was reissued on the Follow That Dream label in a special edition that contained the original album tracks along with a selection of alternate takes.

Track listing
Original release
Follow That Dream re-issue
2015 reissue
Disc 1
Same as Follow That Dream 2005 issue

Disc 2
All tracks previously unissued

Personnel
Passage 3:
A Date with Elvis (The Cramps album)
A Date with Elvis is the third full-length studio album by the American rock band the Cramps, released in the UK on Big Beat Records in 1986. The title was appropriated from A Date with Elvis (1959), the eighth album by Elvis Presley. The album was recorded in fall 1985 and engineered by Steve McMillan and Mark Ettel at Ocean Way Studios in Hollywood, California. The album was first released in the US in 1990 by Enigma Records, with the bonus tracks "Blue Moon Baby," "Georgia Lee Brown," "Give Me a Woman," and "Get Off the Road." The Cramps reissued the album (with bonus tracks) on their own Vengeance Records in 2001. The original album was reissued in the UK by Big Beat in 2013 on orange vinyl, and subsequently reissued again by Vengeance Records in the US, UK and Canada in 2014. It was The Cramps’ most commercially successful album release, reaching the US Billboard Top 100 and UK Top 40.
The album was dedicated to Ricky Nelson, whose version of the song "Lonesome Town" (covered by the Cramps on their first EP Gravest Hits and later included on compilation album ...Off the Bone) was a US hit single in 1958. It is also significant in that it is the only Cramps album to feature vocals by guitarist Poison Ivy, on "Kizmiaz" (as well as on the B-side "Get Off the Road" included on the 1990 reissue).

Critical reception
Robert Palmer, in The New York Times, praised the album and called it the band's best.  He wrote: "After a decade together, the Cramps have learned to focus and intensify their inventive revisions of rock-and-roll tradition and their playfully anarchic spirit." The A to X of Alternative Music called it the band's "most effective distillation of psychedelia, punk and rock'n'roll."

Track listing
Charts
Personnel
The Cramps
Lux Interior – vocals
Poison Ivy Rorschach – guitars, bass, vocals on "Kizmiaz" and "Get Off the Road"
Nick Knox – drums, bongoswith:

McMartin Preschool Choir (includes Fur Dixon) – vocals on "People Ain't No Good"

Technical
Mark Ettel, Steve Macmillan – engineer
Joe Schiff, Tony Chiappa – assistant engineers
Eddy Schreyer – mastering
The Cramps – cover layout, photography
Phil Smee – cover illustration (lettering)
Passage 4:
Like a Baby
"Like a Baby" is a song written by Jesse Stone. It was recorded by Vikki Nelson for a Vik Records single in 1957. Priscilla Bowman recorded it for Abner Records in 1959. It was also recorded by Elvis Presley for his 1960 album Elvis Is Back!. James Brown and the Famous Flames recorded the song and released it as a single in 1963, which charted No. 24 R&B. The single's B-side, an instrumental version of "Every Beat of My Heart", also charted, reaching No. 99 on the  Billboard Hot 100. Brown and the Flames performed "Like a Baby" on their 1964 live album Pure Dynamite! Live at the Royal.
Wanda Jackson recorded "Like a Baby" for her 2011 album The Party Ain't Over.
Glenn Danzig recorded the song for his 2020 album Danzig Sings Elvis.
This is not the song "Like a Baby" recorded by Len Barry (1965) and written by John Madara, David White and Len Barry.

Personnel (Elvis Presley version)
Sourced from Keith Flynn.
Elvis Presley – lead vocals, acoustic rhythm/lead guitars
Scotty Moore — electric guitar
D. J. Fontana — drums
Hank Garland – six-string bass guitar
Bob Moore – double bass
Floyd Cramer – piano
Boots Randolph – saxophone
Buddy Harman – drums
The Jordanaires – backing vocals
Passage 5:
Santa Bring My Baby Back (To Me)
"Santa Bring My Baby Back (To Me)" is a 1957 Christmas song by Aaron Schroeder and Claude Demetrius, recorded by Elvis Presley. The song was released on the RCA Victor Elvis' Christmas Album in 1957.

Background
The song, written by Aaron Schroeder and Claude Demetrius, has been a popular Christmas song during the Holiday season on radio stations for decades. The song appeared originally as part of an RCA Victor 45 EP, EPA-4108, with "Santa Claus is Back in Town", "Blue Christmas", and "I'll Be Home for Christmas" in 1957. The EP reached #1 on the Billboard EP chart. The song was recorded on September 7, 1957, and features the vocal backing of the Jordanaires.
"Santa Bring My Baby Back (To Me)" was paired with "Santa Claus Is Back In Town" and was issued as a UK single concurrently with the album's release in 1957. The single reached #7 on the UK Singles Chart in November 1957.

Album appearances
The song appeared on the original RCA Victor LP, Elvis' Christmas Album, the 1958 reissue, the 1970 RCA Camden reissue, the UK release of the Camden version, CDS 1155, the 1975 Pickwick reissue, and the 1985 RCA Special Products rerelease.

Cover versions
"Baby Come Back," a song with the same melody and similar lyrics but without any references to Santa Claus or Christmas, was one of the earliest releases of Johnny Rivers in 1958.
In the 1965 Rolling Stones documentary film Charlie Is My Darling, the song is sung impromptu by Mick Jagger and Keith Richards in a hotel lounge.
Mae West recorded the song for her 1967 Christmas album Wild Christmas. The Reverend Horton Heat recorded the song for his 2005 Christmas album We Three Kings.  Eleanor Friedberger released a cover version on the 2013 compilation album Holidays Rule.
The song has also been recorded or performed by The Smithereens, The Refreshments, Jeff Healey, 45 R.P.M., Arena Venus, Kim Stockwood, Terry Buchwald, Chris Isaak, Jimmy "Orion" Ellis, Janice Hagan, Rick Saucedo, and Tony Witt. John Candy performed the song in character as drag queen/actor Divine in a Christmas-themed episode of SCTV.
Train recorded the song for their 2015 album Christmas in Tahoe.
Passage 6:
List of songs recorded by Britney Spears
American pop singer Britney Spears made her chart debut in November 1998 with "...Baby One More Time", which attained global success. It was followed by the release of her debut studio album ...Baby One More Time (1999), which opened at number one on the Canadian Albums Chart and the US Billboard 200, and was later certified fourteen-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Spears's second studio album, Oops!... I Did It Again, was released on May 16, 2000, and became the fastest-selling album by a female act in the US, selling 1,319,193 units in its opening week. It spawned the singles "Oops!... I Did It Again", "Lucky", "Stronger", and "Don't Let Me Be the Last to Know". In November 2001, Spears's released "I'm a Slave 4 U", the lead single from her self-titled third studio album (2001). In November 2003, Spears's fourth studio album, In the Zone, was released. The album includes "Me Against the Music", a collaboration with Madonna that reached number one on the European Hot 100 Singles, and "Toxic", which earned Spears her first Grammy Award in the category Best Dance Recording. Her first compilation album, Greatest Hits: My Prerogative, was released the following year.
Following her personal struggles through 2007, Spears's fifth studio album, Blackout, was released in October of the same year. The album sold over three million units worldwide, spawning the hit singles "Gimme More" and "Piece of Me". With the release of her sixth studio album Circus (2008), Spears became the only act in the Nielsen SoundScan era (1991–present) to have four albums debut with US sales of 500,000 or more copies. Including the singles "Womanizer" and "Circus", it sold four million copies worldwide.Spears's third compilation album, The Singles Collection (2009), includes her third US number-one single "3". In 2011, Spears released the single "Hold It Against Me", making her the second artist in the Billboard Hot 100 chart's 52-year history to debut at number one with two or more songs, after Mariah Carey. The track was included on her seventh studio album Femme Fatale (2011), which debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200. Spears's eighth studio album, Britney Jean, was released in 2013; it made little commercial impact and received mixed reviews from critics but spawned the hit single "Work Bitch", which was certified platinum in the United States. Glory, the ninth studio album from Spears, was released in August 2016 to critical praise and chart success but failed to reach the success of her other albums.
Spears has sold over 100 million records worldwide and more than 28.6 million digital singles in the US alone, making her one of the best-selling music artists of all time. Billboard ranked her as the eighth-overall Artist of the Decade; it also recognized her as the best-selling female album artist of the first decade of the 21st century and the fifth overall. The RIAA also recognized Spears as the eighth top-selling female artist in the US, with 34.5 million certified albums. Spears is among the few artists in history to have had a number-one single and a number-one album in each of the three decades of their career (1990s, 2000s, and 2010s).

Songs
Passage 7:
Heaven Only Knows (album)
Heaven Only Knows is the seventh album by R&B crooner Teddy Pendergrass. It was his final studio album for Philadelphia International, released just after he left the label to record for Asylum Records. It produced one single, "I Want My Baby Back," which reached #61 on the Billboard charts in 1984.

Critical reception
The Philadelphia Inquirer noted that, "except for the gentle, eloquent 'Crazy About Your Love', these Gamble- and Huff-produced tunes are mawkish and overblown."

Track listing
"Crazy About Your Love" (Bobby Womack, Kenny Gamble, Leon Huff)
"Judge for Yourself" (Dexter Wansel, Cynthia Biggs)
"I Want My Baby Back" (Womack, Gamble)
"Life Is for Living" (Frank Prescott, Michael Burton, Phil Terry)
"You and Me for Right Now" (Victor Carstarphen, Gene McFadden, John Whitehead)
"Just Because You're Mine" (Gene McFadden, John Whitehead)
"Heaven Only Knows" (LeRoy Bell, Casey James)
"Don't Ever Stop (Giving Your Love to Me)" (Gamble, Huff)
Passage 8:
Mark Chesnutt (album)
Mark Chesnutt is the tenth studio album by American country music artist Mark Chesnutt. His only album for the Columbia Records Nashville label, it features the singles "She Was", "I Want My Baby Back" and "I'm in Love with a Married Woman", which peaked at #11, #47, and #48, respectively, on the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts. "I'm in Love with a Married Woman" was later recorded by Blaine Larsen on his 2006 album Rockin' You Tonight.

Track listing
Personnel
Chart performance
Passage 9:
Oh Santa!
"Oh Santa!" is a song by American singer and songwriter Mariah Carey from her second Christmas album and thirteenth studio album, Merry Christmas II You (2010). Carey wrote and produced the song in collaboration with Jermaine Dupri and Bryan-Michael Cox. It was released as the lead single from the album on October 1, 2010 by Island Def Jam Records. It is an up-tempo R&B song about Carey making a plea for Santa Claus to bring back her partner in time for the Christmas holidays. It received a positive response from music critics, with many praising its composition and style.
The track set a record on the United States Billboard Adult Contemporary songs chart, debuting at number twelve and peaking at number one the following week for four weeks. It became the first song to reach the summit in two weeks. It further became Carey's seventh number-one song on the chart. Carey filmed a 1960s-style music video to accompany the song's release as a single, and performed it on various programs in the lead up to Christmas, including her own TV special called Mariah Carey: Merry Christmas to You.
It was later adapted to be the finale of A Christmas Melody, a 2015 Hallmark Channel Christmas movie, with its lyrics tweaked to be relevant for Broadway child performer Fina Strazza's character singing about her single mother finding love. On December 4, 2020, a new version was released featuring singers Ariana Grande and Jennifer Hudson, as a single from the soundtrack to Mariah Carey's Magical Christmas Special for Apple TV+.

Background and composition
"Oh Santa!" was written and produced by Mariah Carey, Jermaine Dupri and Bryan-Michael Cox for Carey's second Christmas/thirteenth studio album, Merry Christmas II You (2010); Rye Songs administered by Songs of Universal (BMI)/Shaniah Cymone Music|EMI April Music Inc. (ASCAP)/WBM Music Corp Inc./Pamela & Lorrence's Publishing LLC (SESAC). Her vocals were recorded by Brian Garten, Marcus Johnson and Thomas Kanarek, Martin Cooke, Nicholas Essif and Peter Mack, and the music by John Horesco at Guardian Angel Studios, Westlake Recording Studios, Henson Studios and Capitol Recording Studios. It was mixed by Phil Tan and Damien Lewis at The Ninja Beat Club. Dupri played the drums and Randy Jackson performed bass. Cox plated the keyboard and percussion. The background vocals were sung by Angie Fisher, Melonie Daniels, Maryann Tatum, Sharlotte Gibson and Toni Scruggs."Oh Santa!" was one of four original compositions by Carey to be included on the album. It premiered on October 1, 2010, in the United States. An EP consisting of six remixes by Jump Smokers and Low Sunday were released on December 7, while a mix of "Oh Santa! and one of Carey's previous Christmas songs "All I Want for Christmas Is You", titled "Oh Santa! All I Want for Christmas Is You (Holiday Mashup)", was released on December 17. "Oh Santa!" is an up-tempo and festive R&B song, which lasts for a duration of three minutes, thirty-one seconds. It has a 1960s girl-group swing feel. The song, in the key of C♯ major, has a tempo of 80 beats per minute. Carey's voice spans more than three octaves, from  B♭2 to the high note of F♯6. Instrumentation consists of sleigh bells, jingle bells, hand claps and a piano melody, backed by a "school-yard chant beat". Lyrically, Carey makes a plea to Santa Claus asking him to bring back her "baby" in time for Christmas, singing "Santa's gon' come and make him mine this Christmas."

Critical reception
Mike Diver of the BBC wrote that "Oh Santa!" is a "boisterous" song which "makes perfect sense" as a lead single. He continued to write that although it fell substandard to "All I Want for Christmas Is You", it would still "warrant revisiting 12 months down the line". Rolling Stone writer Caryn Ganz commented on the composition, writing "Mariah bops to a schoolyard-chant beat". Joey Guerra of the Houston Chronicle described the song as "irresistible" and predicted that it would "dominate ringtones" in the run up to Christmas. A reviewer for Idolator described the track as a "boppy" Christmas version of Avril Lavigne's "Girlfriend". Rich Juzwiak of The Village Voice was critical of the song, writing "Of the four Mariah-penned new tracks, the Jermaine Dupri/Bryan-Michael Cox collaboration 'Oh Santa!' tries the hardest, an antique kitchen-sink replica that manages to invoke a cheerleading squad, the Pointer Sisters, Mariah's own 'Loverboy', and Hey Ya!'. Full of mumbling and cattiness, it's difficult to sing along to, so its prospects of becoming a perennial favorite are dim."

Chart performance
In the United States, "Oh Santa!" became a record-breaking entry on the Billboard Adult Contemporary songs chart. It debuted at number twelve for the issue dated December 11, 2010. The track soared to number one the following week, marking the quickest ascent to the peak position since Nielsen BDS began tracking airplay in 1993, in just two weeks. Previously, eight songs had reached number one within three weeks, four of which were Christmas entries due to adult contemporary radio stations playing an increased amount in the holiday season. "Oh Santa!" became Carey's seventh number-one hit on the chart, and her first in fifteen years since "One Sweet Day" (1995–96), a duet with Boyz II Men. The singer also topped the chart with her debut single "Vision of Love" (her first) and "Love Takes Time" in 1990, "I Don't Wanna Cry" in 1991, and "Can't Let Go" and "I'll Be There" in 1992. "Oh Santa!" remained atop the chart for four consecutive weeks altogether. It finished at number 42 on the 2011 Adult Contemporary year-end chart. For the week ending October 30, 2010, Carey occupied the top two positions on the Holiday Digital Songs chart: "Oh Santa!" debuted at number one while "All I Want For Christmas Is You" charted at number two. On January 1, 2011, the track debuted at number one-hundred on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, and number forty on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Digital Songs chart.Elsewhere, the track debuted at number thirty-six on the South Korean Gaon International Digital Singles Chart for the week ending November 20, 2010. It later peaked at number thirty-two for the week ending December 25, 2010. On the International Download Singles Chart, the track peaked at number thirty. "On Santa!" peaked at number sixty-eight on the Japan Hot 100. The song peaked at number seventy-three on January 1, 2011, for two consecutive weeks on the Canadian Hot 100 chart.

Music video
The music video for "Oh Santa!" was directed by Ethan Lader and was shot in Los Angeles on October 6, 2010. Reports surfaced online that Carey's then-husband Nick Cannon would be directing the video, however Cannon dispelled the rumors on Twitter, saying "I am NOT directing." The video for "Oh Santa!" premiered on entertainment news program Access Hollywood on November 2, 2010. Prior to its release, various media outlets speculated that the video was going incorporate the same on-set style as seen in Outkast's music video for their 2003 single "Hey Ya!", with the singer as the main feature in front of  a large audience. Carey's fan site MariahDaily posted a message on their website asking people within the Los Angeles area to appear for a casting call for a chance to be featured in the video.

Synopsis
The video draws influence from the 1950s and 1960s variety shows and features Carey wearing a short, red "sexy Santa" ensemble, whilst on stage with a band, which featured gospel backup singers as well as a group of dancers, consisting of cheerleaders. The plotline is centered on Carey hosting a "Mariah Carey Christmas" television show. The announcer introduces Carey saying "here she is, the greatest singer of all time, Ms. Mariah Carey!". The video then shows Carey's backup singers belting out the chorus while the singer is seen performing in front of a cheering audience. Her collection of fragrances is also advertised in the opening. In the second half of the video, Santa Claus makes an appearance, waving to friends and sharing a hug with Carey. The video ends with the singer laughing while the audience cheers and claps for her performance.

Reception
Becky Bain of Idolator commented on the simple structure and themes of the video, writing "There’s not much to this simple vid, but it does feature Carey doing her usual hand-waving theatrics while hitting some absolutely killer high notes." Bain also observed that the vast majority of the shots of Carey are either long shots, showing the singer from a distance, or close-up shots, showing Carey from the shoulders and above so that the viewer was not able to easily recognize that she was pregnant. Nicole James of MTV Buzzworthy also praised the content of the video, writing "Of course, it wouldn't be a Mariah Carey video without some glitz and glam so the stage and backdrop are covered in (what else?) glitter. Mariah puts on a great show and sings her heart out with that famous eight-octave range ... scrooges need not apply, 'Oh Santa!' is fun and festive and has you longing for a sip of eggnog."

Remixes
When the song was first released as a single in 2010, six dance remixes were commissioned and were later released as a digital EP. A mashup of the song with 1994's "All I Want for Christmas Is You" produced by Jump Smokers titled "Oh Santa! All I Want for Christmas Is You (Holiday Mashup)" was also released on December 13, 2010.

Track listings and formats
Charts
Tenth anniversary version featuring Ariana Grande & Jennifer Hudson
For the tenth anniversary of the song, Carey re-recorded and re-released the song commercially as a new remix. Carey recorded the new version of the song with Ariana Grande and Jennifer Hudson. The new version served as the lead single from Carey's second soundtrack album, Mariah Carey's Magical Christmas Special. The song was released across all streaming platforms on December 4, 2020, accompanied by its official music video, premiered the same day on Carey's YouTube account.

Background
Talking to Billboard, Carey stated in regards to the song that "originally, I was blending with myself [...] but it was cool to be able to work with the different vocal textures and play around with it and reimagine it." She went on to describe the song as a "girl group moment".

Reception
The remix received positive reviews on release. Billboard writer Rania Aniftos wrote that the three singers "trading verses and harmonies" amounts for a "truly angelic result". Chris Murphy, writer for Vulture went on to say that "the trio, the remix, and the accompanying music video absolutely makes the nice list in every possible way."In its first week of release, the song sold 10,000 downloads in the United States and 9,250 equivalent units in the United Kingdom.

Charts
Release history
See also
List of Billboard Adult Contemporary number ones of 2010
List of Billboard Adult Contemporary number ones of 2011
List of artists who reached number one on the U.S. Adult Contemporary chart
Passage 10:
Black Elvis/Lost in Space
Black Elvis/Lost in Space is the fourth solo studio album by American rapper and producer Kool Keith, and his first release under the alias of 'Black Elvis'. It was intended to be released the same day as First Come, First Served, but was pushed back by Columbia Records and ended up being released four months later on August 10, 1999 through Relativity Entertainment Distribution rather than Sony Music Distribution, denoted by the WK prefix instead of the customary CK prefix and the legal copy on the release.  Black Elvis 2 followed in 2023.

Background
Kool Keith uses very complex rhymes on various subject matters from Black Elvis' viewpoint on half of the album and on the other half elaborates on space travel and being lost in space. This is the first album for which Keith handled all of the production, although drum programming was done by Kutmasta Kurt and Marc Live. Sadat X, Black Silver, Roger Troutman, Motion Man, Kid Capri and Pimpin' Rex made guest appearances on the record.
A promotional video was made for the track "Livin' Astro" which aired on a few episodes of the MTV show Amp in early 2000. The video features Kool Keith acting as several different personas amidst a sci-fi backdrop that resembles the Black Elvis/Lost in Space album cover. The personas include the Original Black Elvis, Orange Man, the Kid in the Commercial, Lonnie Hendrex, and Light-Blue Cop.
Kool Keith was displeased with the lack of promotion for the Black Elvis project, and vented his frustrations about his label on the songs "Release Date" and "Test Press." He also published the e-mail addresses of several Ruffhouse executives, asking his fans to demand better promotion.

Reception
The album peaked at number 180 on the US Billboard 200, #74 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, #10 on the Heatseekers Albums.

Track listing
Sample credits
Track 5 contains elements from "Come Go With Me" by Teddy Pendergrass (1979)
Track 8 contains elements from "Our House" by Madness (1982)
Track 11 contains elements from "Snake" by Charles Earland (1973)
Track 16 contains elements from "You Used to Love Me" by Faith Evans (1995)

Personnel
Charts