Passage 1:
Kiss of Death (TV drama)
Kiss of Death, previously titled Breathless and Blood Rush, is a British crime investigation television film, written by Barbara Machin, author of the British television crime drama series Waking the Dead, that aired on BBC on 26 May 2008.
The one-off drama, intended as a backdoor pilot for a possible series, was originally written as a two-part series but was re-written several times at the request of BBC executives. The original running time of 120 minutes was also shortened to 90, and the programme was finally broadcast in one instalment in May 2008. The drama was produced by BBC Northern Ireland and shot in Bristol. A DVD was released in Sweden in 2010, but as of 2016, has not been released in the UK. Viewing figures of 3.9 million did not prove strong enough for a full series to be commissioned.

Synopsis
A plot synopsis issued by the BBC in a press release read as follows: "In this drama, a killer has killed once and kidnapped another victim, challenging the investigative and forensic team to work out why. Suddenly everyone's past comes under scrutiny, everyone's version of the truth comes under suspicion. Kay Rousseau (Louise Lombard), who heads up the crime team, is back at work after the death of her child. Suspicion about her involvement in this death remains, not least in her own husband. Only Matt Costello (Danny Dyer), Kay's second-in-command and a dedicated, impassioned copper, is loyal to the core. Dr. George Austen (Lyndsey Marshal), the team's forensic scientist, worked on Kay's case and knows things Kay wished she didn't, and this isn't helped by her own fast increasing addiction to alcohol which puts her evidential work under unwelcome scrutiny.
Dr Clive Morrell (Shaun Parkes) is a profiler whose own mood swings and strange behaviour are causing concern within the team. Jude Whiley (Lenora Crichlow) is a rookie cop, who is young, fresh and has an energy and passion for the job that verges on obsession. Miles Trumeman (Ace Bhatti) plays Kay's husband Miles Trueman, who is a lawyer attached to the case. Brian McCardie plays killer Michael Bovery, a man obsessed with one of the team, and Jeffery Kissoon plays Commissioner Wilson, Rousseau's boss."

Cast
Louise Lombard as Superintendent Kay Rousseau
Danny Dyer as Detective Inspector Matt Costello
Lenora Crichlow as Detective Constable Jude Whiley
Lyndsey Marshal as Dr. George Austen, pathologist
Shaun Parkes as Dr. Clive Morrell, profiler
Ace Bhatti as Miles Trueman, lawyer
Caroline O'Hara as Jane, kidnap and rape victim
Neil McDermott as John, kidnap victim
Perry Benson as The Courier
Brian McCardie as Michael Bovery
Jeffery Kissoon as Commissioner Wilson

Notes
External links
Kiss of Death at BBC Online 
Kiss of Death at IMDb
Passage 2:
Sam &amp; Max Save the World
Sam & Max Save the World is a graphic adventure video game developed by Telltale Games. The game was originally released as Sam & Max: Season One before being renamed in early 2009. Save the World was developed in episodic fashion, comprising six episodes that were released for Microsoft Windows over the course of late 2006 and early 2007. The episodes were initially distributed online by GameTap and Telltale Games themselves, although the later retail releases of the game were published by The Adventure Company and JoWooD Productions in North America and Europe respectively. A Wii port of the game was published in late 2008, and an Xbox Live Arcade version was released in mid-2009. A remaster of the game by Skunkape Games was released in December 2020 for Nintendo Switch and Microsoft Windows, in August 2021 for Xbox One, and in September 2022 for PlayStation 4.Based on Steve Purcell's comic book series Sam & Max, the game follows the title characters Sam and Max—self-styled vigilante private investigators, the former an anthropomorphic dog and the latter a "hyperkinetic rabbity thing"—through several cases involving a hypnotism conspiracy. Each episode features one case with a contained story, with an underlying plot running through the series. The game was announced by Telltale Games in 2005 following the cancellation of Sam & Max: Freelance Police by LucasArts in the preceding year; many of the employees at Telltale Games were members of the Freelance Police development team.
The game received a positive response from critics, with praise bestowed on the game's humor, graphics and gameplay, but concerns were voiced over the low difficulty of the puzzles, repetition in design between episodes and the effectiveness of the story. Opinions dissented across the Atlantic; some British reviewers did not appreciate the writing in the way that American critics did. Nevertheless, the game has won several awards and is often cited by commentators as the first successful application of episodic distribution. The game was accompanied by a number of short machinima videos set between each episode. The game was followed by two episodic sequels: Sam & Max Beyond Time and Space in 2007 and Sam & Max: The Devil's Playhouse in 2010.

Gameplay
Sam & Max Save the World is a 3D graphic adventure game in which the player controls the character of Sam. The player has Sam explore the environments of the game and solve a series of puzzles using a simple point-and-click interface. The game's puzzles have logical solutions, although a number of them have far-fetched solutions due to the game's cartoon setting. Depending on the type of in-game entity a player selects using the cursor, the player can have Sam walk around an area, look at and comment on objects, pick up certain items or otherwise try to use them. Sam may also engage in conversation with non-player characters; when this occurs, the game presents a dialog tree with several subjects to pick from. Topics of conversation may directly involve the story or provide assistance with the game's puzzles, while others may be entirely unconnected. In some cases, the player may be able to choose dialog for Max to speak as well.The game implements an inventory system to allow Sam to store any items that the player picks up during the course of the game. The player may select any of the items in the inventory and can then attempt to use them on objects in the game world or give them to other characters simply by clicking on the desired target. Unlike Save the World's predecessor, Sam & Max Hit the Road, inventory items are context specific, and cannot be used together or combined to create new items. Typically, Sam carries a gun that may be used to solve several puzzles.The characters can travel between a variety of locations in the game using their black and white 1960 DeSoto Adventurer, which, when selected, will present the player with a list of available destinations. The DeSoto is also used for several driving sequences, usually involving pursuing or fleeing criminals in other vehicles. In these driving sequences, the player can use Sam's gun, the car's horn, or have Max attempt to communicate with other vehicles via a megaphone. In addition, special inventory items may be used to complete specific puzzles within these sequences. Driving sequences are also used for several minigames, such as pulling innocent drivers over for fabricated felonies. In keeping with the developer's heritage from the LucasArts adventure games, Sam & Max Save the World is designed so that the player characters cannot die or reach a complete dead-end.

Synopsis
Characters
Sam & Max Save the World is set in a universe that parodies American popular culture, and it follows the title characters of Sam and Max, the Freelance Police, a pair of vigilantes and private investigators. Sam is a level-headed but enthusiastic anthropomorphic dog who wears a blue suit and fedora. He is inquisitive, knowledgeable in obscure areas and tends to prefer the logical solution to problems, but he is not above using force. Max is described as a "hyperkinetic rabbity thing"; cunning, uninhibited and reveling in violence and mischief. His reactions to situations usually incorporate force but often with a seeming disregard for his own personal safety. Together, the Freelance Police operate out of a dilapidated office block in a dangerous neighborhood in New York City where they receive cases over the telephone from an unseen police commissioner.There are several supporting characters that consistently appear throughout the episodes.
Bosco is the proprietor of the nearby convenience store and supplies the Freelance Police with a number of items across the game. Driven paranoid by repeated shoplifting, Bosco is obsessed with conspiracies, believing that nearly every US government agency, as well as many criminal outfits, are after him. As such, his store is overwhelmed with security devices and contraptions created by Bosco himself. He regularly attempts to disguise himself as a variety of foreign nationals, but to little effect.Further down the neighborhood is Sybil Pandemik, who owns a small office across from Sam and Max. Sybil is unable to keep a consistent job and regularly changes her career choices. Introduced as a psychotherapist, she is noted to have worked as a tattoo artist, software tester, tabloid journalist and professional witness.In a hole in Sam and Max's own office resides Jimmy Two-Teeth, a rat who works as a petty criminal, confidence trickster and fence. He profusely dislikes Sam and Max, who he sees as always interfering with his work.Other characters include the Soda Poppers, a group of three former child stars from the 1970s. The three, each with their own trademark catch-phrase, first appear as victims of hypnosis in the first episode, later acting as the judges on a Pop Idol parody in the second episode. By the fourth episode, they are elected the governors of the Dakotas and plunge the region into civil war over ownership of Mount Rushmore. Also making sporadic appearances is Hugh Bliss, an eccentric magician and leader of the Prismatology cult, a parody of Scientology. He is often seen attempting to promote his self-help guides based on Prismatology. Sam finds Bliss irritating, while Max almost idolizes him. Minor characters include Agent Superball, a US Secret Service agent with a penchant for guarding doors; Chuckles, the pit manager in a mafia-run casino; Harry Moleman, a police mole who switches sides; and the Computer Obsolescence Prevention Society (COPS), a group of outdated computers attempting to find purpose in the technologically advanced world.

Plot
The game opens with Sam and Max, the Freelance Police, lounging in their office, awaiting a new case after a long hiatus. Eventually, the commissioner sends them out to investigate a group of former child stars, the Soda Poppers, who have been causing trouble in the neighborhood. The Soda Poppers are attempting to promote a self-help video called Eye-Bo, which (when watched) hypnotizes the viewer. After seeking assistance from Sybil to reverse the hypnotism on the Soda Poppers by knocking them unconscious, the Freelance Police learn that the scheme has been devised by one Brady Culture, another former child star who owes his fall from popularity to the rise of the Soda Poppers. Sam and Max and the Soda Poppers confront Culture, who hypnotizes the Soda Poppers again. However, Sam manages to fool Culture into ordering the Soda Poppers to attack himself, subduing the threat. The next case the Freelance Police get involves liberating a studio audience held hostage by a deranged TV talk show host, Myra Stump. At the TV station, Sam and Max deduce that Myra has been hypnotized and, after using other shows in the studio to become celebrities, they convince her to let them become guests on her show. Once on the show, Sam notes a strange toy bear on the host's desk, the source of the hypnotism. Using the studio sound system, Sam electrocutes both Myra and the bear, allowing the audience to leave.
The commissioner then tasks Sam and Max with infiltrating the Toy Mafia, a criminal organisation operating from a casino. The commissioner's mole in the organisation has gone quiet; he wants the Freelance Police to find out what happened to the mole. Sam and Max quickly discover that the Toy Mafia are responsible for the toy bear that hypnotised Myra. As they gain the Mafia's trust, they ascertain that the mole has switched sides and is now leading the outfit. After discovering that the casino is a front for a factory producing the hypnotizing bears for mass distribution, the Freelance Police sabotage the factory and destroy the operation. Soon after, the US President starts bringing in bizarre policies; Max is particularly concerned about the introduction of gun restrictions, while Sam believes the President has been hypnotized. At the White House, Max beheads the President, revealing him to be a mechanical puppet designed to hypnotize the nation through TV broadcasts. The President's bodyguard, none other than the now-fallen Toy Mafia's pit boss, activates a giant robot disguised as the statue at the Lincoln Memorial to run in an emergency election against Max. Sam discredits Lincoln's campaign, resulting in Max winning the presidential election. Lincoln begins a destructive rampage through Washington D.C., but is neutralized when Max fires an intercontinental ballistic missile at him.The next case given to Sam and Max involves dealing with a computer crisis that is causing the world economy to collapse. They discover the problem is a virtual reality program called Reality 2.0, powered by the Internet (which has gained sentience), which is hypnotizing people so they never want to leave the program. Sam and Max access the program themselves and introduce a computer virus that crashes Reality 2.0 and deletes the digital embodiment of the Internet. Prior to expiring, the Internet reveals that it was following the plans of one Roy G. Biv. Sam eventually deduces that Roy G. Biv is actually Hugh Bliss, a character seemingly in the background of all their previous cases. The Freelance Police travel to Bliss' Prismatology retreat on the Moon, where Bliss is preparing a device to hypnotize the entire planet. Bliss reveals himself as a colony of sentient bacteria that feeds off of the endorphins produced by human happiness; by hypnotizing the planet, Bliss assures himself of a permanent supply of nourishment. Bliss activates the device, but is killed when Sam tricks him into a tank of water and boils it using the rocket engine of a lunar lander. Returning to Earth, Max takes great pleasure in reversing the hypnotism by personally knocking everyone on the planet unconscious.

Episodes
Machinima
For the release of each episode, Telltale Games released three corresponding machinima shorts. These shorts are set between the episodes; fifteen were released in total. The first short, "Frank Discussion", released on November 30, 2006, has Sam and Max share a discussion regarding frankfurters and their preservative properties in Bosco's store. The short was followed on December 7 by "Trainspotting", in which Sam ponders the meaning of life while Max questions the sensibility of being outside, away from the comforts of their office. On December 12, Telltale released "A Painstaking Search": having misplaced the keys to their office, Sam and Max return to Brady Culture's hideout in an attempt to retrace their steps. The first short of 2007, "Reality Blights", was released on January 4 and sees Max volunteer the duo to appear on a reality television show, Four Freaks in a Terribly Cramped Office. "Egregious Philosophy Platter" was released seven days later on January 11 and features Sam and Max as host the hosts of television show Egregious Philosophy Platter, discussing the philosophers Socrates and Descartes. The final short relating to television shows, "Kitchen Consequential", was released on January 18 and follows Sam and Max hosting Fun in the Kitchen With Sam and Max where they showcase a few recipes of special effects."Interrogation" was released after the game's third episode on February 1, in which Sam and Max demonstrate how to properly interrogate a suspect. This was followed by "Coffee" on February 8; in the short, Sam and Max experiment with telekinesis on coffee cups. On February 15, "The Blank Blank Blank" was released, where Sam and Max discuss with Bosco a government agency so secret, the acronym is classified. Following episodes relate to Max's tenure as US president after "Abe Lincoln Must Die!"; "War Games", released on March 1, has Sam and Max engage in military activities from the White House's war room under the pretense that they are mere simulations. It was followed by "The Teapot Drone Scandal" on March 15, in which Max orders a Secret Service agent to recite "I'm a Little Teapot" over the telephone. "Saving the Economy" was released on March 22, showing a broadcast by Max outlining his plans to make the economy more efficient by irrationally extending daylight saving time. On April 5, "Artichoke" was released, in which Max holds a press conference where he is unwisely questioned about his gun control policies. The penultimate short, "Bosco", was released on April 12, and shows Max starting a negative campaign against Bosco for the presidential election, despite the fact that he is not running. "A Fireside Chat", the final episode, was released on April 19, depicting a broadcast by Max to the state of Idaho in the hopes of getting them to vote for him.

Development
Production
Sam & Max Save the World originates from Sam & Max: Freelance Police, a graphic adventure game that was developed by LucasArts from 2002 to 2004. Freelance Police was a sequel to the 1993 title Sam & Max Hit the Road. However, LucasArts ceased production on Freelance Police in March 2004. In the subsequent weeks, LucasArts underwent major restructuring; many of the developers who worked on past LucasArts adventure games were made redundant. Some of the former Freelance Police development team consequently formed Telltale Games in June 2004 to continue developing the sort of adventure games that LucasArts no longer wished to produce. Sam & Max creator Steve Purcell, who described himself as disappointed and frustrated with LucasArts' decision, took the Sam & Max franchise to Telltale after the LucasArts license expired in mid-2005. Telltale Games announced the new series of Sam & Max games in September 2005. Brendan Q. Ferguson, who worked on Freelance Police as a programmer, designer and writer; Dave Grossman, one of the project leaders on Maniac Mansion: Day of the Tentacle; and Purcell primarily led the development of the project.Unlike Freelance Police, Save the World was developed in episodic form, with episodes being released in quick succession, to allow for reduced development time between titles and quicker delivery of content to consumers. Telltale launched a website for Sam & Max in November to accompany their new series. The following month, Purcell began publishing a Sam & Max webcomic entitled "The Big Sleep" on the site; the webcomic ran for twelve issues and concluded in April 2007. Purcell won an Eisner Award in 2007 for the webcomic. In March 2006, Telltale acquired US$825,000 in funding from a group of private investors, to help sustain growth until its next round of equity funding.Telltale released the game's trailer for the Electronic Entertainment Expo in May 2006, showing the new voice actors for Sam and Max: David Nowlin and William Kasten respectively. However, Andrew Chaikin voiced Max in the first episode, but was unable to continue in the role due to health reasons. While at the convention, Telltale revealed that the first episode was forecast for release towards the end of 2006, via the distribution service GameTap. Telltale announced a release date of October 17 over GameTap in early September, with the note that each episode would be made available from Telltale themselves within fifteen days of release. Development on the first episode was completed on September 25, and from October 10, GameTap began hosting the Sam & Max animated series as promotional material for release. The first episode, "Culture Shock", was released on-time on October 17. The next five episodes were released over short intervals until the series finale in April 2007. The series debuted on Steam on June 15 the same year. Telltale began shipping a special collectors edition of the game in July, while the retail version of the game was published in August. January 2008 saw a significant update to the game, upgrading the game engine and ensuring compatibility with Windows Vista.Three months later, Telltale announced a Wii version of the game. Telltale reported that an email campaign and Internet rumors of a port had stirred up interest within the company for producing a Wii version. They redesigned the game's point-and-click interface to accommodate the Wii Remote, the primary controller for the console. The game was initially forecast for release in North America on October 7, 2008, but was released a week later on October 14. The European version was published later in December.In February 2009, Telltale Games renamed the game from its initial release title of Sam & Max: Season One to Sam & Max Save the World. Telltale's public relations spokeswoman, Emily Morganti, explained that while Season One was thought to communicate the game's episodic nature to potential consumers, the company felt that it was nondescript in relation to the game's story. The message accompanied the announcement of an Xbox Live Arcade version of the game, which had been subject to media speculation since February 2007. Both Windows and Wii versions of the game were republished using the new title.

Design
According to Dave Grossman, the objective for Telltale Games with Sam & Max Save the World was to create a game with a "lot of story and character in it". Grossman explained that the Sam & Max franchise was therefore most ideally suited to the graphic adventure genre; while action was thought to be possible with the source material, it "would be kind of wrong". Still, designers decided to introduce action moments such as car chase scenes, wanting players to "feel like [they] are these crazy Freelance Police officers" and "just be involved in all this sort of mayhem" presented in the original comic strips.  Like in previous Sam & Max games, Sam & Max Save the World used a point-and-click gameplay system, itself a variation of the control scheme used by Telltale in their preceding adventure game series, Bone; the action sequences implemented in the game still maintained the point-and-click interface.Very little of the design from Freelance Police was carried over into Save the World; LucasArts still held onto the assets created for use in Freelance Police, and Telltale was wary of using similar design patterns. While Ferguson and Purcell had both been involved with the canceled LucasArts project, Grossman had not. The team decided to just start from fresh, and pursue a different treatment of the game's subject. Purcell himself wanted to ensure that the game conveyed the "gritty" feel of the original comics—something he felt was lacking from the LucasArts renditions of the franchise. Grossman stated that "we wanted to get a little bit more of that dirt on the streets, and the paper cups and people being mean and nasty". This "gritty" feeling also influenced artistic design. For instance, on Purcell's suggestion, the sky was changed from blue to yellow in the street outside Sam and Max's office, instantly making the environment feel "filthy and disgusting".

Audio
Bay Area Sound, a company set up by Clint Bajakian, who had worked extensively on composition and sound production on LucasArts games since 1994, produced the soundtrack. The Save the World soundtrack was composed by Jared Emerson-Johnson, Bajakian's former protégé, whose previous work included composition and sound editing for LucasArts. Emerson-Johnson's scores used live performances as opposed to synthesized music often used elsewhere in the video games industry; a small team of five musicians, including Emerson-Johnson and a recording engineer, produced the soundtrack. The score is primarily grounded in film noir jazz, inspired by the work of Henry Mancini and Charles Mingus. However, Emerson-Johnson noted that as the Sam & Max universe is "open-ended", he had the chance to explore into other musical genres in some episodes, such as "a song-and-dance Charleston number, faux Philip Glass, an ode to Nina Rota's music from The Godfather, and even some inspired retro 8-bit game music". Several songs were incorporated into the soundtrack, performed by Emerson-Johnson or Peter Barto, the voice actor for Agent Superball. Purcell later commented that Emerson-Johnson had seamlessly blended a "huge palette of genres and styles", while Ferguson stated that he believed that it was Emerson-Johnson's scores that created the vital atmosphere in the games, noting that prior to the implementation of the music, playing the games was an "unrelenting horror". The soundtrack to Sam & Max Save the World was published in July 2007.

Reception
Sam & Max Save the World received positive critical reaction from reviewers. Aggregate review scores on GameRankings and Metacritic rank the fifth episode, "Reality 2.0", as the critical favorite, while the third episode, "The Mole, the Mob, and the Meatball" received the lowest scores. The entire season holds a score of 88 percent on GameRankings. In addition to receiving several editor choice awards, the game has been recipient to publisher awards for the best adventure game of 2006. As Telltale Games had managed to release a steady stream content with only small time gaps, journalists in the video game industry had considered Sam & Max Save the World to be the first successful application of episodic gaming. Previous unsuccessful implementations of the distribution model included attempts by Valve with the Half-Life series, Ritual Entertainment with SiN Episodes and Telltale themselves with Bone.The debut episode, "Culture Shock", was recipient to a mostly optimistic response from critics. The episode was thought to adequately follow 1993's Sam & Max Hit the Road, with the introduction of the new 3D engine and gameplay being positively received. Criticisms of "Culture Shock" focused on the story; while the humor in the writing was praised, the plot was seen as a "thin excuse for the jokes" and the episode's primary antagonist was described by IGN's Steve Butts as "a bit of a letdown". The second episode, "Situation: Comedy", was thought to produce a better antagonist than "Culture Shock", with the puzzles linking in well to the story. However, critics described the puzzles as too easy, and expressed disappointment at the reuse of lines from the first episode. The next episode, "The Mole, the Mob, and the Meatball", was the lowest rated episode amongst reviewers. Although the episode received compliments for its dialogue and humor, it was criticised for its easy puzzles and short length.The fourth episode, "Abe Lincoln Must Die!", was held by critics to be one of the series' best episodes. The episode's story of political satire was subject to praise, whilst the increased length was also appreciated. Puzzles were felt to be more difficult and satisfying to solve. Detractors of the episode, however, felt that the episode suffered from the need to constantly move between locations and from the reuse of old characters and locations. "Reality 2.0", the fifth episode, was the critical favorite of the series. The game's puzzles were cited as stronger than in "Abe Lincoln Must Die!", with a fitting tribute to text adventure games towards the end. However, the script was thought to be inferior to the preceding episode. The season finale "Bright Side of the Moon" received a more reserved response than the two previous episodes, with criticisms directed at the length of the game and the depth of character interaction. Nevertheless, reviewers felt that the episode had reasonable puzzle design and that it was a respectable end to the series.Critics gave positive reviews towards the overall gameplay mechanics, although they often presented some reservations. Several reviews praised the simplicity of the game interface. Andre Thomas of GamePlasma described the game's learning curve as "incredibly simple" and the gameplay mechanics as logical extension of those from the adventure games of the 1990s, while GamingTrend reviewer Ron Burke praised Telltale's "intuitive" point-and-click system. Mark Smith of Game Chronicles, however, stated that the streamlined mechanics eliminated "a lot of the exploration and discovery we normally associate with these types of games". Some reviews directed criticism towards puzzle design; according to Smith, the game is "certainly accessible to kids and younger teens", but the adult audience "will find these games way too easy". Reviewing for Adventure Gamers, Evan Dickens felt that the puzzles took "a bit of thought and consideration, but never to a point of consternation", believing that the low difficulty was intended by Telltale to allow players to "proceed through the story with minimum frustration". Hyper's Tim Henderson commends the game for being "highly accessible [and] almost as funny as the original", but criticises it for its episodic content being a "tease".In relation to the story and writing, critics felt that the overall plot was ineffectual. Al Giovetti of JustAdventure felt the plot was lacking, while Burke considered the episodic nature to be detrimental to maintaining plot cohesion between the episodes, a point with which Dickens agreed. Despite this, several reviewers thought that the individual episode stories and the presentation and development of the characters were good. Reviewers considered the writing for each episode as one of the best features of the game; they also praised the level of humor in the game, although Dickens felt that it was not until the fourth episode that the writing properly established itself. In addition, they directed some skepticism towards the reuse of scenes and characters, with critical opinion divided on the degree of success in this regard. A point of contention rose between British and American reviewers over the story and setting, exemplified in PC Gamer; whilst positive towards the first and fourth episodes, the British edition of the magazine felt this repetition was a severe failing of Save the World, and that the writing did not work well. In contrast, the American edition rated each episode highly, stating that the quality of the series was "excellent".Critics commended Sam & Max Save the World's graphics and art direction; Dickens commented that "the cartoonish, absurdist nature of Steve Purcell's characters is captured perfectly" within an "enthusiastically colorful world that is at its best the stranger it gets", while GameZone reviewer Anise Hollingshead praised Telltale for successfully upgrading the characters' graphics "without losing any of their cartoon appeal". Kristen Reed, writing for Eurogamer, felt that the graphics reflected a "great degree of care and attention to everything from the locations to the standard of character modelling and animation". They also praised the game for its sound, voice acting and music. In a review for The Entertainment Depot, Tim McGowan complimented Emerson-Johnson's soundtrack as "being quite excellent and listenable on its own", and IGN's Alex Van Zelfdendate described it as a "breath of fresh air". In contrast, PC Gamer UK's Alec Meer felt that the opening theme tune was "so busy trying to hint at [the theme for Sam & Max Hit the Road] that it forgets to have a memorable melody of its own". Nowlin and Kasten's voicework also received a positive response.The Wii version of the game garnered a more reserved view from critics than the PC version; GameRankings and Metacritic gave aggregate review scores of 75 percent and 74 percent, respectively. For better or worse, reviewers felt that the game had not changed much from the PC version in terms of gameplay, story or overall content. While Sam & Max was thought to be a "perfect, naturally cartoony fit for the Wii", the critics noted a number of technical issues with the release. Several critics cited minor issues with using the imprecise Wii Remote for puzzles requiring accuracy, while observations were made that lines of dialogue could be cut short and that the frame rate could slow significantly, especially in action sequences.

Remastered
Sam & Max Save the World Remastered was developed by Skunkape Games, a studio founded by Telltale co-founder Dan Connors and made up of original development team members Jake Rodkin, Jonathan Sgro, and Randy Tudor; the studio is named in reference to General Skun-ka'pe, a character from Sam & Max: The Devil's Playhouse. Following the closure of Telltale Games in 2018, Skunkape acquired the rights to Sam & Max and retrieved the game's original assets and source code. While the team originally planned to simply update the existing games with a software patch to improve compatibility with newer PCs, the original material's age proved difficult to work with in many regards, leading to the decision to fully remaster Save the World instead. The team consulted with Purcell on the remaster, who contributed additional artwork. Several members of the original development team outside of Skunkape also contributed to the remastering effort, including locating original assets that could not be retrieved from Telltale's archives. The Remastered release runs on the most recent version of the Telltale Tool and features updated character models and lighting, controller support, and new music by original composer Jared Emerson-Johnson. Other changes made include updated cutscene cinematography and re-recorded dialogue for Bosco, with Ogie Banks replacing previous actor Joey Camen. Save the World Remastered was released on Nintendo Switch and Windows on December 2, 2020; on Xbox One on August 10, 2021; and on PlayStation 4 on September 29, 2022. The original Save the World episodes were later released as free downloadable content for the Steam version of Remastered in February 2021. Following Save the World, Skunkape began work on remasters for the other Telltale Sam & Max games, with Beyond Time and Space released in December 2021 and The Devil's Playhouse planned for 2023.

Notes
External links
Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived June 18, 2018)
Official website (Remastered)
Passage 3:
Luther: The Calling
Luther: The Calling by Neil Cross is a tie-in novel based on the BBC crime drama Luther. Two further Luther novels were anticipated, but have not appeared.

Summary
The novel introduces the character of Detective Chief Inspector (DCI) John Luther. The novel is a prequel to the television series and focuses on the traumatic case involving a child killer named Henry Madsen. The novel expands on and explains several elements of the TV series, such as the breakup of the Luthers' marriage, and the corruption of DCI Ian Reed. The final events in the book mirror those portrayed at the start of Series 1 of the television series, which aired 15 months prior to the novel's release.

Reception
Sue Turnbull of The Age describes the book as providing "some clever but uncomfortable reading". She concludes by comparing the novel to the television series stating "What this book offers is bleaker, more confronting and, well, terrifying. Be prepared". John O'Connell from The Guardian summarised the novel by stating "the key murders in The Calling are so repulsive and their perpetrator so plausible that at times I had to force myself to keep reading. But I'm glad I did." Rob Farquhar of the Carins Post commended Neil Cross on the creation of DCI John Luther describing Luther as a man "possessed of brilliance and by an animal ferocity that he keeps from all but the monsters he seeks out". He concluded by stating fans of the "TV series will love this".In 2012, Luther: The Calling won the Ngaio Marsh Award for Best Crime Novel.

See also
Luther (TV series)
List of Luther characters
List of Luther episodes
Passage 4:
Warren Brown (actor)
Warren Martin Brown (born 11 May 1978) is an English actor, best known for his roles as Donny Maguire in Shameless and Andy Holt in Hollyoaks, DS Justin Ripley in the BBC crime drama Luther and as Sergeant Thomas "Mac" McAllister in the British-American action television series Strike Back, starting with Strike Back: Retribution.

Early life
Warren Brown was born in Warrington, England. He studied at the University of Salford.

Career
After appearing in two episodes of the television series Shameless, Warren played the evil Andy Holt in Channel 4's  Hollyoaks. Despite being 27 years old at the time, it was said his youthful good looks and diminutive height helped him win the role of the student.
Brown was nominated for a number of awards for his performance in the show including Best Villain, Most Spectacular Scene and Best Exit at the 2006 British Soap Awards. Brown's character Holt met his demise in February 2006.
Brown won a role in the short-lived ITV show Jane Hall in the summer of 2006. This was followed in March 2007 by his role as Tommo in ITV's Mobile. Also in 2007 he starred as Chris in one episode of Casualty. In September 2007 he starred in the second series of BBC Three's Grownups, playing barman Alex Salade and has played the part since. In the 2009 Comic Relief Special of Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps, which was a crossover between Grownups, Two Pints and Coming of Age, he played Alex again.
In 2008, Brown performed the voiceover for the film trailer of Gomez: A True Story, based on the life of boxer Michael Gomez and starring Emmerdale's Kelvin Fletcher. In October 2008, Brown played the role of Marky in E4's zombie drama Dead Set. In November 2008, he appeared in Casualty, but not playing the same character as he did in 2007. In 2009 Brown appeared in the three part BBC Iraq war drama Occupation, alongside James Nesbitt and Stephen Graham Brown has appeared in two episodes of The Bill playing Jake Clegg, who was a part of the operation of trafficking young girls illegally. These episodes were titled "The Forgotten Child".
From May 2010, he appeared as the regular character of DS Justin Ripley in the BBC drama Luther, a role that he reprised in June 2011 in the second series of Luther. Brown left the series in 2013.
Brown appears in the deadmau5 music video for the song "I Remember", also starring Stephen Graham, Aston Kelly (Graham's brother), Greg Walsh and ex-Coronation Street actress Emma Edmondson. In October 2010, Brown appeared as Matt in the BBC drama Single Father. In February 2012, he played one of the main characters in the BBC drama series Inside Men. He appeared as a member of Bane's Mercenary Security in The Dark Knight Rises, the third instalment of Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy.
First broadcast in August 2012, Brown starred as PC John-Paul Rocksavage in the four-part BBC police drama Good Cop.
From 2017, he plays Sergeant Thomas "Mac" McAllister in Retribution,  the British-American action television series, in the sixth series and second revamp of Strike Back opposite Daniel MacPherson.  The eighth series finished filming and aired in February 2020.
Brown has appeared in many audio dramas for the company Big Finish Productions, the most notable of which including a recurring role in their UNIT series, a spin-off based around the military organisation that regularly appeared in Doctor Who, since 2016, and playing Keith Burrow in Big Finish's original eight-part thriller Transference. In 2020, Brown would make his debut appearance in the television series, in the episode "Praxeus", albeit as a different character, former police officer Jake Willys, who was looking for his husband.
In 2023, Brown featured as a main cast member in BBC One drama Ten Pound Poms. For his portrayal of Terry Roberts, he was awarded the Best Actor trophy in the Fiction portion of the Golden Nymph Awards at the Monte-Carlo Television Festival.

Boxing
Brown has competed at world-level in Muay Thai (Thai kickboxing) and is a two-time World Champion.

Filmography
Film
Television
Video games
Passage 5:
Pramface
Pramface is a British sitcom starring Scarlett Alice Johnson and Sean Michael Verey. Written by Chris Reddy, the first series, comprising six half-hour episodes, piloted on 23 February 2012. The second series, which was commissioned by the BBC before the first series had even aired, began transmission on 8 January 2013 with an hour-long special as the first episode. The remaining six episodes of the series were of the usual half-hour length. A third series was commissioned which began airing on 25 February 2014 with the double episode series finale, which aired on 25 March 2014, bringing the third series to a total of six half-hour episodes. It was confirmed in August 2014 that a fourth series will not be commissioned.

Plot
Best friends Jamie, Mike, and Beth finish their GCSE exams and head towards a sixth form party. Meanwhile, 18-year-old Laura, encouraged by her best friend Danielle, breaks her parents' curfew and heads to the same party; both Jamie and Laura are determined to have a good time. During the party they meet and drunkenly have sex. The next morning Jamie writes Laura a note with his phone number on it and leaves. Some few weeks later, Laura discovers that she is pregnant, and that Jamie is only 16. Life is about to begin, but not in the way either of them expected.Series 1 follows the life of the two teenagers and their family and friends as they try to get to grips with the impending parenthood and the struggles of pregnancy. Series 2 follows the next stage, caring for the newly born baby, Emily, while Laura faces the difficulties associated with being a new mother. Series 3 follows Jamie encountering a new woman in his life and how that affects his relationship with the mother of his child.

Production
Filming
The show was filmed in and around Edinburgh, Scotland, with specific locations including amongst others The Grange suburb and the Corstorphine parish church.

Cast
Scarlett Alice Johnson as Laura Derbyshire
Sean Michael Verey as Jamie Prince
Dylan Edwards as Mike Fenton
Yasmin Paige as Beth Mitchell
Emer Kenny as Danielle Reeves
Ben Crompton as Keith Prince
Bronagh Gallagher as Sandra Prince
Angus Deayton as Alan Derbyshire
Anna Chancellor as Janet Derbyshire

Episodes
Series overview
Series 1 (2012)
Series 2 (2013)
Series 3 (2014)
International broadcast
Australia – Season 1 premiered in Australia on 3 January 2013 on ABC2.
 Netherlands – All three seasons have been picked up by Netflix in the Netherlands.
 United States – All three seasons of the show have been picked up by Hulu in the United States.

Online
In addition to episode preview clips and character information on the BBC website, the writer and stars wrote blog posts about making the show for the BBC TV Blog and BBC Three Blog. An official Facebook page was set up for fans although this has since been closed and one of the main characters, Mike Fenton, was given his own Twitter account where he commented in-character on the events of the episodes as well as other things going on in the real world at the time.
Passage 6:
Luther (TV series)
Luther is a British psychological crime thriller television series starring Idris Elba as DCI John Luther and Ruth Wilson as Alice Morgan, written by Neil Cross. The detective Luther must make cases against criminals while the murderer Morgan has a complicated relationship with him. The first series is composed of six episodes which ran in May and June 2010. A second series of four episodes aired on BBC One in June and July 2011, and a third was commissioned in 2012 composed of four episodes which aired in July 2013. A two-episode fourth series was broadcast in December 2015, and a fifth series of four episodes premiered on 1 January 2019. BBC Studios handled distribution for the TV series.A feature film continuation, Luther: The Fallen Sun, was released in select cinemas on 24 February 2023, before its streaming release on 10 March 2023, by Netflix. Starring Elba, Andy Serkis and Cynthia Erivo, the film was written by Cross.
Elba has been awarded a Critics' Choice Television Award, Golden Globe Award, and Screen Actors Guild Award for his performance as John Luther. The series has also received eleven Primetime Emmy Award nominations in various categories, including four nominations of Elba for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Miniseries or Movie.

Plot
John Luther is a Detective Chief Inspector (DCI) working for the Serious Crime Unit in series one, and the new "Serious and Serial" unit from series two. A dedicated police officer, Luther is obsessive, possessed, and sometimes violent. However, Luther has paid a heavy price for his dedication; he has never been able to prevent himself from being consumed by the darkness of the crimes with which he deals.
For Luther, the job always comes first. His dedication is a curse and a blessing, both for him and those close to him. In the very first episode of the series, he investigates brilliant psychopath and murderer Alice Morgan. Ultimately, he is unable to arrest her due to lack of evidence, but as the series progresses, she becomes both his nemesis and unlikely companion. As she pursues her infatuation with him, he gradually relents as he is able to glean insight from her about some of the cunning criminals he pursues. After Alice helps Luther avenge the death of his estranged wife Zoe, Luther aids her escape from a secure facility and she flees the country. In Alice's absence, Luther's life is dominated by his police work once again, culminating in the murder of his partner and protégé Justin Ripley in the third series. Alice reappears following Ripley's death, and finally convinces Luther to leave London with her.
When the fourth series begins, Luther is living a reclusive life on the English coast. After learning of Alice's apparent death in mysterious circumstances, he is persuaded to return to London and resume his role as a DCI. It ultimately transpires that Alice faked her own death after her life with Luther did not match their expectations. Two years later she returns to extort money from organised crime boss George Cornelius, who sabotaged her previous diamond exchange. Embroiled in her schemes again, Luther's relationship with Alice heads towards its destructive climax.

Cast and characters
Episodes
Series 1 (2010)
The first series of Luther aired in 2010 and received positive reviews from critics, getting an average of 5.9 million viewers per episode.

Series 2 (2011)
In August 2010, the BBC announced that it had commissioned a second series for 2011. Filming started in late September/early October 2010. Originally planned to be broadcast as two two-hour episodes, it was shown as four one-hour episodes. The first episode was shown on BBC One on 14 June 2011.

Series 3 (2013)
In August 2011, the BBC One controller announced that a third series had been commissioned.Filming of the four-episode series started in November 2012. Sienna Guillory was cast as Luther's new love interest. Other guest stars included Lucian Msamati and Ned Dennehy. The third series began airing on 2 July 2013 and concluded on 23 July.

Series 4 (2015)
On 19 November 2014, it was announced that a two-episode special would be aired on the BBC in 2015. Filming began in March 2015 and ended April 2015. BBC Home Entertainment later confirmed that the Region 1 version of the Series 4 DVD would be released on 15 December 2015, coinciding with the air date of the fourth series. On 24 October 2015, BBC One confirmed via their Facebook page that series 4 of Luther would air in December 2015 on BBC One.In November 2015, it was announced that Luther was confirmed to air in the United States on BBC America for a three-hour one-night event on 17 December 2015.The first episode of the fourth series aired on BBC One on 15 December 2015.

Series 5 (2019)
The BBC announced a fifth series composed of four episodes on 12 June 2017. Filming started in early 2018. Ruth Wilson was confirmed to be returning as Alice Morgan for series five. Series 5 directed by Jamie Payne premiered on 1 January 2019, and was broadcast over consecutive nights through to 4 January.

Film (2023)
In September 2021, Netflix announced a feature film continuation of Luther with Elba reprising his role and Cross writing. Andy Serkis and Cynthia Erivo also joined the cast. The film, Luther: The Fallen Sun, was released in select cinemas on 24 February 2023, before its streaming release on 10 March 2023, by Netflix.

Production
Creator Neil Cross has said that Luther is influenced by both Sherlock Holmes and Columbo; the nature of Luther's intellect and its application to solving crimes is comparable to Holmes's, whereas the show's use of the inverted detective format was inspired by Columbo.The first series was filmed in and around London, England, and produced by BBC Drama Productions. Brian Kirk, Sam Miller and Stefan Schwartz each directed two episodes and show creator Neil Cross wrote all six of the episodes. Leila Kirkpatrick was the line producer for the entire program and Katie Swinden was the producer for a number of episodes. Tim Fleming provided cinematography for two episodes. Katie Weiland and Victoria Boydell were involved in film editing, with Weiland editing two episodes. Andy Morgan was responsible for all casting, Paul Cross provided production design and Adam A. Makin was behind the show's art direction.The show is filmed in various locations around Central, North, West and East London including the Barbican Estate, Elephant and Castle, Westfield Shopping Centre (Shepherd's Bush), Renaissance Hotel (Heathrow Airport), Ealing Hospital, Cranbrook Estate (Bethnal Green), Victoria Park, Waterloo station, Holloway, Shoreditch and the Docklands.

Critical reception
Series one was met with positive reviews, according to aggregate review site Rotten Tomatoes, where it holds a 91% approval rating, based on 23 reviews. The site's consensus reads: "Gritty and ambiguous, Luther is a captivating drama bolstered by a powerhouse performance from Idris Elba in the title role." It holds a Metacritic score of 82 out of 100, based on 11 collected reviews, indicating "universal acclaim". However, The Guardian's Stuart Heritage was initially critical of the show, and compared it to the American series FlashForward, in that both series arrived with a large amount of hype but delivered an anticlimactic end product. However, by the fifth episode, Heritage had changed his views and called it Idris Elba's best work since The Wire.The show's second series was met with equally positive reviews and holds a 100% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 13 reviews. The site's consensus reads: "Luther delves into darker territory in its second series, and Idris Elba's outstanding performance makes this a police procedural of uncommon weight and heft." It holds a Metacritic score of 78 out of 100, based on 9 collected reviews, indicating "Generally favorable reviews." Variety and The Hollywood Reporter admiringly highlighted the darker tone, Elba's performance, and the production. In the third quarter of 2011, the top-rated shows on BBC America were Doctor Who, Top Gear, and Luther, which together gained the network its highest quarterly ratings ever.Series three was again met with positive reviews and holds an 88% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 25 reviews. The site's consensus reads: "Idris Elba shines in the title role of Luther despite familiar circumstances that benefit from the shortened season." It holds a Metacritic score of 76 out of 100, based on 19 collected reviews, indicating "Generally favorable reviews".Series four received positive reviews, with a 79% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 14 reviews. The site's consensus reads: "Idris Elba remains the best thing about Luther in an all-too-brief season which packs a lot of plot into a short time frame." It holds a Metacritic score of 68 out of 100, based on 11 reviews, indicating "Generally favorable reviews".After a four-year hiatus, the Series five broadcast in 2019 met with positive reviews, garnering an 85% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 40 reviews. The site's consensus reads: "Luther returns in fine form from its extended exodus with a grisly mystery and the welcome reappearance of Ruth Wilson's psychotic villain, Alice Morgan."

Broadcast outside of the United Kingdom
The first series of the show premiered in Australia on ABC1 on 15 October 2010 and in the United States on BBC America two days later. The second series debuted in the United States on BBC America on 29 September 2011 and Australia on ABC1 on 24 February 2012. The third series ran in the United States on BBC America on four consecutive nights beginning 3 September 2013. The fifth series premiered in the United States on BBC America on 2 June 2019.
The deal also includes the network to show the first six seasons of another series produced by the BBC, Death in Paradise, airing on Thursdays at 7 pm and airing on Fridays at 8 am ET part of the "Morning Mysteries" morning mystery crime drama block.

Soundtrack
Paul Englishby composed Luther's soundtrack. He incorporated many pop and rock songs into the soundtrack, using these generally in the end credits. A CD titled Luther – Songs and Score From Series 1, 2 and 3 was released on 19 August 2013 and contains many of the themes and songs used in the television series. The opening theme song is a shorter version of "Paradise Circus" by Massive Attack from the album Heligoland (2010) with vocals provided by Hope Sandoval.

Awards and nominations
Adaptations
American version
In 2014, Fox started developing an American TV series version of Luther, with Cross writing and executive producing the series, and Elba, Peter Chernin (of the Chernin company), Katherine Pope, and BBC Worldwide Prods' Jane Tranter and Julie Gardner as executive producers. The project was helmed by 20th Century Fox TV, Chernin Entertainment, and BBC Worldwide Prods. The project was formally dropped in 2017.

Russian version
In 2014, Channel One Russia was developing a Russian TV series version of Luther, with Konstantin Lavronenko, starring as Klim. The series was first broadcast on 31 January 2016.

Korean version
On 5 February 2018, South Korean TV network Munhwa Broadcasting Corporation (MBC) announced that it will broadcast a Korean version of Luther. The adaptation will be broadcast in November 2018 and is produced by the MBC Drama Production Group. In August 2018, Shin Ha-kyun was cast as male lead.The series title was changed later into Less Than Evil (나쁜 형사, lit. "Bad Detective"). It aired on MBC on 3 December 2018.

Indian version
Indian actor Ajay Devgan announced that he'll be starring in the Indian adaptation of Luther, titled Rudra: The Edge Of Darkness. The first season of the series premiered on 4 March 2022 on Disney+ Hotstar.

French version
The French television channel TF1 has ordered a remake of the British television series which is filmed in the city of Paris and its suburbs. The first episode of the French version gained 4.8 million viewers.

Novel
In August 2011, Cross released a tie-in prequel novel Luther: The Calling following the broadcast of the second season. Two further novels were ordered, but were never released.
Passage 7:
Fear the Walking Dead (season 1)
The first season of Fear the Walking Dead, an American horror-drama television series on AMC, premiered on August 23, 2015, and concluded on October 4, 2015, consisting of six episodes. The series is a companion series and prequel to The Walking Dead, which is based on the comic book series of the same name by Robert Kirkman, Tony Moore, and Charlie Adlard. It was executive produced by Kirkman, David Alpert, Greg Nicotero, Gale Anne Hurd, and Dave Erickson, with Erickson assuming the role of showrunner. On March 9, 2015, AMC announced it had ordered Fear the Walking Dead to series, with a two-season commitment. The second season, comprising 15 episodes, premiered on April 10, 2016.The season follows a dysfunctional, blended family composed of Madison Clark (Kim Dickens), her fiancé Travis Manawa (Cliff Curtis), her daughter Alicia (Alycia Debnam-Carey), her drug-addicted son Nick (Frank Dillane) and Travis' son Chris (Lorenzo James Henrie) from a previous marriage to Liza Ortiz (Elizabeth Rodriguez). At the onset of the zombie apocalypse, their group is joined by Daniel Salazar (Rubén Blades), his wife Griselda (Patricia Reyes Spíndola), and their daughter Ofelia (Mercedes Mason). The families navigate through Los Angeles in search of a safe haven.

Production
Development
In September 2013, AMC announced they were developing a companion series to The Walking Dead, which follows a different set of characters created by Robert Kirkman. In September 2014, AMC ordered a pilot, which was written by Kirkman and Dave Erickson, and directed by Adam Davidson, and is executive produced by Kirkman, Erickson, Gale Anne Hurd, and David Alpert, with Erickson serving as showrunner. The project was originally known as Cobalt.

Casting
In December 2014, the first four starring roles were cast: Kim Dickens as Madison, the female lead; Cliff Curtis as Travis Manawa, the male lead; Frank Dillane as Nick; and Alycia Debnam-Carey as Alicia. In April and May, 2015, Elizabeth Rodriguez and Mercedes Mason were announced as series regulars, both in unknown roles.

Filming
Production of the pilot episode began in early 2015 and ended on February 6, 2015. The pilot episode was filmed in Los Angeles; the remaining first-season episodes were filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Production on the remaining five first-season episodes began on May 11, 2015. Adam Davidson, who directed the pilot, also directed the series' second and third episodes.

Cast
Main cast
The first season features eight actors receiving main cast billing status:

Kim Dickens as Madison Clark: An intelligent and domineering high school guidance counselor, the mother of Nick and Alicia, and Travis' fiancée.
Cliff Curtis as Travis Manawa: A resolute and peacekeeping high school teacher, Madison's fiancé, Chris' father, and Liza's ex-husband.
Frank Dillane as Nick Clark: A brave and selfless recovering heroin addict, Madison's son, and Alicia's brother.
Alycia Debnam-Carey as Alicia Clark: The fiery yet compassionate daughter of Madison, and the sister of Nick.
Elizabeth Rodriguez as Liza Ortiz: A no-nonsense and caring nursing student, Travis' ex-wife, and Chris' mother.
Mercedes Mason as Ofelia Salazar: The strong-willed and very capable daughter of Daniel and his wife Griselda.
Lorenzo James Henrie as Chris Manawa: Travis and Liza's rebellious teenage son, who becomes more brutal due to the landscape of the deadly new world.
Rubén Blades as Daniel Salazar: A courageous and practical former Sombra Negra member, a barber, Griselda's husband, and Ofelia's father.

Supporting cast
Patricia Reyes Spíndola as Griselda Salazar: Ofelia's mother, who emigrated from El Salvador with her husband Daniel to escape political unrest.
Scott Lawrence as Art "Artie" Costa: The principal at the high school where Madison and Travis work.
Lincoln A. Castellanos as Tobias: A wise-beyond-his-years high school senior.
Maestro Harrell as Matt Sale: Alicia's boyfriend.
Shawn Hatosy as Cpl. Andrew Adams: A well-intentioned military man with a soulful disposition, who is out of his element.
Jamie McShane as Lt. Moyers: The leader of the National Guard contingent in charge of protecting Madison's neighborhood. He does not take the complaints of the citizens too seriously and is a loose cannon.
Sandrine Holt as Dr. Bethany Exner: A confident and skilled doctor.
Colman Domingo as Victor Strand: A smart and sophisticated businessman with a mysterious past.

Guest cast
Keith Powers as Calvin: Nick's best friend and drug dealer.
Leon Thomas III as Russell: One of Travis' students before the outbreak.

Episodes
Reception
Critical response
On Rotten Tomatoes, the season has a rating of 76%, based on 63 reviews, whose average rating is 6.75/10. The site's critical consensus reads, "Fear the Walking Dead recycles elements of its predecessor, but it's still moody and engrossing enough to compete with the original." On Metacritic, the season has a score of 66 out of 100, based on 33 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".Elisabeth Vincentelli of the New York Post rated the first two episodes three out of four stars, stating that "[They] are creepily suspenseful–they're great examples of how effective a slow pace and a moody atmosphere can be." Another positive review of the first episode came from Ken Tucker of Yahoo TV, who wrote, "Fear the Walking Dead is a mood piece, more artful than the original series" and that the cast is "terrific". Tim Goodman of The Hollywood Reporter gave an average review, writing, "The 90-minute first episode and the hour-long second episode are, while not actually boring, certainly less magnetic than the original."One of the harshest negative reviews came from HitFix, on Daniel Fienberg and Alan Sepinwall's podcast, where Fienberg called the premiere episode "awful, just horrible ... as bad as The Walking Dead has ever gotten at its very worst. This is that bad. I've been kind of stunned to see people being generous to it. ... I thought this was almost unwatchably bad." Sepinwall called his B− review "slightly generous".

Ratings
The U.S. series premiere attracted 10.1 million total viewers, with 6.3 million in the advertiser-coveted 18-to-49-year-old demographic, both cable television records for a series premiere. Numerous international debuts of the pilot also set ratings records. The first season averaged 11.2 million viewers in "live plus-3" ratings (includes VOD and DVR viewing within three days after initial telecast) to become the highest-rated first season of any series in cable history.

Home media
The first season was released on Blu-ray and DVD on December 1, 2015. A special edition version of the first season was released on Blu-ray and DVD on March 22, 2016, with new bonus features, including deleted scenes, seven featurettes, and audio commentaries by cast and crew, on all six episodes.
Passage 8:
NCS: Manhunt
NCS: Manhunt is a British television crime drama series, starring David Suchet, and based on the National Crime Squad. Created by Malcolm McKay, the series premiered with a two-part pilot episode on BBC One on 26 March 2001. A full series of six episodes debuted on 4 March 2002, and concluded on 19 March 2002. Despite the series' popularity, and strong viewing figures, a second series was never commissioned. Notably, neither the pilot nor the complete series have ever been issued on DVD, although the series was repeated in its entirety on Forces TV in 2016. The series notably starred Michael Fassbender in one of his earliest television roles, after appearing in Band of Brothers the previous year. Kenneth Cranham and Phyllis Logan also co-starred in the pilot episode.David Suchet said of his role in the series, "I don't ever recollect reading a script like this and I've certainly never seen anything like it on television before. When I read it, I was mesmerised. It was quite impossible to say no. Borne is probably the most complex character in the team. He is a man who fascinates by being endlessly enigmatic. He uses language sparingly, but with him everything is going on underneath the surface. And in a sense, I'm not playing another detective at all. I'm merely playing a different, complex human being who just happens to be a detective. You may find him in a police station, but I'd like to think that the audience are aching to see him too."

Cast
Regular cast
David Suchet as Detective Inspector John Borne
Keith Barron as Detective Superintendent Bob Beausoleil
Samantha Bond as Detective Sergeant Maureen Picasso
Melanie Hill as Detective Sergeant Ruby Sparks
Jonathan Phillips as Detective Sergeant Peter Moon
Gerard Horan as Detective Constable Charlie Spanish
Sara Stewart as Detective Constable Mary D'Eye
Jenny Jules as Detective Constable Karen Bogard-Black
Ace Bhatti as Detective Constable Johnny Khan
Paul McKay as Detective Constable Chrissie Crowe
Guy Scantlebury as Detective Constable Eddie Guerin (Pilot and episodes 1 and 2)
Michael Fassbender as Detective Constable Jack Silver (Episodes 3–6)

Supporting cast
Malcolm Tierney as Superintendent Charlie Vanne (Pilot)
Phyllis Logan as Inspector Anne Warwick (Pilot)
Kenneth Cranham as Ricky Valesi (Pilot)
Steven Berkoff as George Rolf (Episodes 1 and 2)
Anita Dobson as Jean Harris (Episodes 1 and 2)
Zawe Ashton as Mia Davis (Episodes 1 and 2)
Ralph Brown as Ray Du Barriatte (Episodes 1, 2 and 6)
Daniel Mays as Danny Bird (Episodes 1 and 2)
Nicky Henson as Vincent Fairey (Episodes 3 and 4)
Michael McKell as Lee Wilde (Episodes 3 and 4)
Steve Speirs as Benny Luck (Episode 6)

Episodes
Pilot (2001)
Series (2002)
Passage 9:
The Frankenstein Chronicles
The Frankenstein Chronicles is a British television period crime drama series that first aired on ITV Encore on 11 November 2015, designed as a re-imagining of Mary Shelley's 1818 novel Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus. Lead actor Sean Bean also acted as an associate producer on the first series. It follows Inspector John Marlott (Bean), a river police officer who uncovers a corpse made up of body parts from eight missing children and sets about to determine who is responsible.
The series co-stars Richie Campbell as Joseph Nightingale, Robbie Gee as Billy Oates, Tom Ward as Home Secretary Sir Robert Peel, Ed Stoppard as Lord Daniel Hervey, Vanessa Kirby as Lady Jemima (Lord Hervey's sister), and Anna Maxwell Martin as author Mary Shelley. Other historical characters portrayed include William Blake (first series), Ada Lovelace (second series) and Charles Dickens under his pseudonym of ‘Boz’. The first series consists of six episodes which opened to critical acclaim and drew an average 250,000 viewers per episode.
A&E subsequently acquired the series for broadcast in the United States, describing it as "thrilling and terrifying". On 20 June 2016, ITV announced that it had renewed it for a second six-part series, with production set for January 2017. Filming commenced in March 2017, with Laurence Fox and Maeve Dermody joining the cast. The writing team for the second series consisted of Michael Robert Johnson, Paul Tomalin, Noel Farragher, Colin Carberry, and Glenn Patterson, with all six episodes directed by Alex Gabassi. In December 2017, it was announced that Netflix had struck a deal to carry the programme in the United States and other territories but was removed in February 2022.

Cast
Sean Bean – Inspector John Marlott, a Thames River Police officer, who has early secondary stage syphilis.
Tom Ward – Sir Robert Peel, the Home Secretary
Richie Campbell – Joseph Nightingale, a Bow Street Runner
Ed Stoppard – Lord Daniel Hervey, an impoverished nobleman and proprietor of a private charity hospital
Vanessa Kirby – Lady Jemima Hervey, an impoverished noblewoman, sister to Lord Hervey
Ryan Sampson – Boz, a journalist from The Morning Chronicle
Robbie Gee – Billy Oates, a hardened street-smart criminal
Anna Maxwell Martin – Mary Shelley, author of Frankenstein (series 1)
Richard Clements - Percy Bysshe Shelley, poet and husband of Mary Shelley (series 1)
Charlie Creed-Miles – Tom Pritty, a grave-robber working for the local surgeons (series 1)
Eloise Smyth – Flora, a homeless child taken by Billy Oates to work as a prostitute (series 1)
Samuel West – Sir William Chester, a renowned surgeon and pioneer of galvanism (series 1)
Mark Bazeley – Garnet Chester, Sir William's cousin, also a surgeon (series 1)
Elliot Cowan – Sir Bentley Warburton, Sir Robert Peel's political rival (series 1)
Kate Dickie – Mrs. Bishop, the matron of a gang of murderers (series 1)
Steven Berkoff – William Blake, author, artist and printmaker (series 1)
Deirdre Mullins – Agnes Marlott, John Marlott's deceased wife (series 1)
Laurence Fox – Frederick Dipple, a socialite with an interest in automata (series 2)
Maeve Dermody – Esther Rose, a Jewish seamstress contracted by Mr. Dipple to provide clothing for his mechanical creations (series 2)
Victoria Emslie – Automaton, one of Mr. Dipple's mechanical creations (series 2)
Lily Lesser – Ada Byron, a brilliant female mathematician, assisting Mr. Dipple in creating his automata (series 2)
Kerrie Hayes – Queenie Pickett, Dipple's housemaid and Nightingale's childhood friend (series 2)

Production
The Frankenstein Chronicles was filmed in Northern Ireland in 2015.

Episodes
Series 1 (2015)
Series 2 (2017)
Reception
On Rotten Tomatoes season 1 has an approval rating of 80% based on reviews from 10 critics.Euan Ferguson at The Guardian concluded "It's genuinely rather good, and a beast of wholly different hide to Jekyll". Carl Wilson at The Globe and Mail wrote: "On balance, the season ended just as brilliantly grim as it started." Ben Travers at IndieWire said: "While it's unlikely to be remembered for as long as it took to make, Frankenstein certainly earned its shot at a long life on Netflix."
Passage 10:
List of Happy Valley episodes
Happy Valley is a British crime drama television series created by Sally Wainwright and produced by Red Production Company. The first series of six episodes started airing on BBC One in the United Kingdom on 29 April 2014.  It was released on Netflix in the United States and Canada on 20 August 2014. A second six-episode series began airing on BBC One on 9 February 2016 and was made available on Netflix in the US later that year.
The BBC announced Series 3 on 26 October 2021 with filming scheduled to begin in 2022. Series 3 started airing on BBC One on 1 January 2023.

Series overview
Episodes
Series 1 (2014)
Series 2 (2016)
Series 3 (2023)
Ratings