Passage 1:
Danity Kane discography
The discography of Danity Kane, an American R&B duo, consists of three studio album, five singles, and four music videos. Danity Kane were formed in 2005 during the third season of the reality television series Making the Band, and consisted of Aubrey O'Day, Wanita "D. Woods" Woodgett, Shannon Bex, Dawn Richard, and Aundrea Fimbres. The group disbanded in January 2009 during the fourth season of Making the Band. The group released their self titled debut album in August 2006. The album reached number one on the United States Billboard 200 and was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Danity Kane's debut single, "Show Stopper", which featured rapper Yung Joc, reached number eight on the US Billboard Hot 100. "Ride for You", their second single, reached number 78 on the Billboard Hot 100. Welcome to the Dollhouse, Danity Kane's second album, was released in March 2008. It reached number one on the Billboard 200 and was certified gold by the RIAA. The album's lead single, "Damaged", reached number ten on the Billboard Hot 100 and was certified platinum by the RIAA. The group's fifth single, "Bad Girl", featured Missy Elliott and reached number 10 on the Bubbling Under Hot 100 chart.

Albums
Studio albums
Extended plays
Singles
Other charted songs
Music videos
Notes
Passage 2:
List of songs recorded by Kesha
American singer Kesha made her international debut in early 2009 featuring on the Flo Rida single "Right Round", which reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States and topped the charts in five other countries. Kesha's debut album, Animal, released in January 2010, topped the Canadian and American charts, debuting at number one in its first week on the Billboard 200. The album's lead single, and Kesha's solo debut single, "Tik Tok", was released in August 2009 and reached number one in eleven countries and spent nine consecutive weeks on top of the Billboard Hot 100. Since its release in 2009, the song has sold 15 million copies worldwide, therefore making it the best-selling digital single of all time. The album spawned three more hit singles, "Blah Blah Blah", "Your Love Is My Drug" and "Take It Off". She topped eight charts on the 2010 Billboard Year-End Chart, including Top New Artists, Hot 100 Songs and Hot 100 Artists.The commercial and critical success of her first album led to plans of a deluxe edition of the album titled Cannibal, which was ultimately released as an extended play in November 2010. Its lead single, "We R Who We R", reached the top ten in ten countries, while peaking at number one in the United States, Australia, and United Kingdom. The EP's second and final single, "Blow", was released in February 2011 and also managed to peak inside the top ten of multiple countries.
Kesha released her second studio album, Warrior, in December 2012. The lead single, "Die Young", peaked at number two in the United States, while charting in the top ten of eleven other countries. Two more singles, "C'Mon" and "Crazy Kids", were also released from the album, but failed to match the success of the lead single. In October 2013, she was featured on Pitbull's single, "Timber", which peaked at number one in over fifteen countries, including the United Kingdom, Canada, and United States.  In April 2016, she released her first single in three years, a collaboration with Zedd, "True Colors".  It is the first song since her ongoing legal battle with producer Dr Luke. 2017 saw the release of Kesha's third studio album, Rainbow, which featured the single "Praying". The single reached no. 22 in the U.S. "Woman" was previously a promotional single but later was released as the second single from the album. Her fourth album, High Road, was released in 2020. Four singles were released from the album: "Raising Hell", "My Own Dance", "Resentment", and "Tonight". Her fifth studio album, Gag Order, was released on May 19, 2023. Two singles were released on the same day ahead of the album's release: "Eat the Acid" and "Fine Line".

Released songs
Passage 3:
Far East Movement
Far East Movement (abbreviated FM) is an American hip hop and electronic music group based in Los Angeles. The group formed in 2003 and as of August 2018 consists of Kev Nish (Kevin Nishimura), Prohgress (James Roh), DJ Virman (Virman Coquia), JT Rollerson (James Rollerson), and formerly J-Splif (Jae Chong).  Their 2010 single, "Like a G6", featuring pop-rap duo The Cataracs and singer Dev hit number one on both the Billboard Hot 100 chart and on the iTunes chart in late October 2010, making them the first Asian-American group to earn a number one hit on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. Among their other chart successes are: "Rocketeer" featuring Ryan Tedder of OneRepublic, which peaked at number seven on the Billboard Hot 100; "Turn Up the Love", which peaked within the top ten of the charts in the United Kingdom, and their 2012 remix of the song "Get Up (Rattle)" by the Bingo Players, which topped the charts in the United Kingdom.
The group's latest album, Identity, is the first release under their own record label Transparent Music. Identity focuses on bridging Eastern artists with FM's Western dance music roots. The album received a positive review in Billboard magazine; the single "Freal Luv" with Marshmello featuring Tinashe and Chanyeol from the chart topping K-pop group Exo, received 40 million plays on YouTube. Far East Movement has also branched out with a number of collaborations on labels Ministry of Sound, Dim Mak, and Ultra.
In 2016, Far East Movement's company, Transparent Arts (TA), moved into artist management. TA manages seven artists of various genres, including Korean-American K-pop artist Tiffany Young, rappers Dumbfoundead and Year of the Ox, DJ producers Yultron, Autolaser, and singer Satica. The artists have garnered millions of social media plays, sold out national tours, and have released tracks through labels Owsla, Spinnin', Armada, and Universal.
FM also has a joint label, BredNButter, with Trap City, a large YouTube dance music channel with more than ten million subscribers. BredNButter's many releases have amassed millions of plays in total in a little over a year of existence.
They also founded Identity Festival, a festival celebrating Asian American Heritage with the City of Los Angeles on the steps of City Hall that gathered over 10,000 attendees in 2018 with headliners Mike Shinoda of Linkin Park and K-pop star Jay Park.
Far East Movement is in the process of recording their next full-length release.

Musical career
2003–2007: Folk Music
The three original members of Far East Movement, Kevin Nishimura (Kev Nish), James Roh (Prohgress), and Jae Choung (J-Splif), grew up in the Downtown Los Angeles area. They were close companions in high school and shared a passion for music together. The trio promoted their music online and began performing at local clubs and events in Los Angeles; soon, they began their musical career with the name "Emcees Anonymous" by 2001. However, they later changed it to Far East Movement or FM, originating from a song that they produced with the same name. In 2003, they organised an event called "Movementality" in Koreatown, Los Angeles, featuring ten different performances with all the proceeds sent to a local youth drug rehabilitation center.
In 2005, Far East Movement released a mixtape called Audio-Bio, which was one of their first CDs and contained many of their earliest songs and many songs not available anywhere else. Their first album, titled Folk Music, was released in early 2006. The single "Round Round" was featured in the film, The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift, appearing both on the self-titled soundtrack and video game. This critical breakout was the catalyst that cemented their decision to pursue music as a full-time career. Their songs "Get Offa Me" and "Make Ya Self" were featured in The Fast and the Furious video game. They proceeded to perform on two world tours (including USA, South America, Canada, and Asia), and they signed distribution deals in Japan and Korea with Avex Network and JF Productions for their album.
In 2007, they were featured in the Sundance Film Festival film called Finishing the Game, making the song "Satisfaction" for the film. They also released the single "You've Got A Friend" featuring Lil Rob and Baby Bash, which became their first song on major national radio.

2008–2009: DJ Virman and Animal
LA's radio station Power 106 DJ, DJ Virman, came to the group as their official DJ. They released another single titled "Lowridin" that received heavy airplay in 2008. Soon after, they planned on showcasing a second album, releasing Animal later on in the same year. Animal featured three hit singles that frequently won national radio play: "You’ve Got A Friend", "Lowridin", and the successful "Girls On The Dance Floor". "Girls on the Dance Floor" reached 27 on the Billboard chart for the Latin Rhythm Airplay, which marked their debut on the Billboard's charts.There were several collaborations on the Animal album, including The Stereotypes, Lil Rob, Baby Bash, Bruno Mars, Wiz Khalifa, Bionik, 24/8, IZ, DB Tonik, and Jah Free. Their songs from the Animal album were featured in major film and television on multiple occasions. FM's single "Girls on the Dance Floor" has been played on MTV's America's Best Dance Crew on the Season 4 Finale during a performance with Artistry In Motion, Vogue Evolution and We Are Heroes. It was also featured on Get Him to the Greek, FOX's So You Think You Can Dance and on the 7th episode of CSI: Miami Season 8. In addition, "Dance Like Michael Jackson" was aired on ABC Family's Lincoln Heights on November 10, 2009 and on the Gossip Girl episode, "Dan de Fleurette". "I Party" was highlighted on FOX's TV series Lie To Me and "Fetish" was on Spike TV's Guy's Choice Awards 2009. "Girls on the Dance Floor" has attained over 5 million hits on Myspace while attracting over 8 million views on YouTube.
Streetwear company Orisue teamed up with Far East Movement and helped shoot a music video for "Lowridin". In May 2009, Far East Movement joined the Korean hip hop group Epik High on their "Map the Soul" tour throughout the U.S. Then they held their first headlining concert at the Roxy Theater in Hollywood by July 2009, which resulted in a sold-out show. Together with Wong Fu Productions, FM has established another three sold-out "International Secret Agents" concerts titled as "ISA", hosted in San Francisco, Los Angeles, and New York in order to promote Asian American artists in the media with performances by Quest Crew, Poreotics, Jay Park, and others.
FM's mixtape Party Animal was released on the first date of LMFAO's Party Rock Tour. Their two singles, "Girls on the Dance Floor" and "2 is Better w/ Ya Boy", garnered successful radio airplay. They later announced that they were working on a new album with Grammy nominated producers, The Stereotypes, who had produced their hit track, "Girls on the Dance Floor".

2010–2011: Cherrytree/Interscope Records and Free Wired
In February 2010, Far East Movement signed a major record deal with Cherrytree Records, a subsidiary of Interscope Records. They were managed at the time by Ted Chung and Russell Redeaux of Stampede Management.
Later in the same year, the group supported Robyn and Kelis on their double headlining tour along with Dan Black, in addition to being announced as the opening act of Lady Gaga's tour on the Japanese leg of The Monster Ball Tour. Furthermore, their previous hit track, "Girls on the Dancefloor" & "Fetish", was featured in Piranha 3D, yet it was not slotted into the film's soundtrack.
Their 2010 "ISA" shows in New York and LA were held on August 28 and September 5 respectively. They performed their songs alongside acts by AJ Rafael, Jay Park, Wong Fu Productions, Poreotics and Quest Crew (both winners from America's Best Dance Crew), David Choi, Jennifer Chung, David Garibaldi, Lydia Paek, and more.
From September 13 until mid-October, the group was one of the opening acts for the Up In The Air Tour with Mike Posner, across various cities in North America.Free Wired, their debut album from Cherrytree/Interscope Records, was released on October 12, 2010. The album includes collaborations with Keri Hilson, Lil Jon, Snoop Dogg (their song co-written by Bruno Mars), Mohombi, Colette Carr, Natalia Kills, Koda Kumi, and Ryan Tedder from OneRepublic.In the October 30, 2010 edition of Billboard Magazine, their single featuring The Cataracs and Dev titled "Like a G6" peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 as well as iTunes. While gathering success for both their album and single, they were featured in a series of tour dates with their Cherrytree/Interscope Record label mate, La Roux, in November 2010.On November 20, it was confirmed that the group had reached the double Platinum status for "Like a G6", collecting two million in sales. Their second single which was released for airplay as a follow up to "Like A G6" was "Rocketeer", which featured Ryan Tedder.The group was awarded Best International Artist in the 2010 M.net Asian Music Awards.The group toured with Rihanna and Calvin Harris from late February to early March, as part of Rihanna's Last Girl on Earth Tour.
 Right after the tour ended, the group began headlining their own tour, The Free Wired World Tour. The group visited Manila, Jakarta, Taipei, Hong Kong, Singapore, Seoul, Hamburg and Bangkok. The group were due to tour selected venues in the United Kingdom in early July but cancelled these dates due to recording commitments. However, they performed at the Barclaycard Wireless Festival on July 1 in London.
Far East Movement toured with Lil Wayne on the I Am Still Music tour. On tour, the group took out a second tour bus to work on their second album under the Cherrytree Records label.

2012–2015: Dirty Bass and KTown Riot
Their second major label album, Dirty Bass, was released on May 18, 2012. The lead single from the album was "Live My Life", featuring Justin Bieber. It was more successful than the original first single "Jello". The single was released on February 28, 2012, with the release of the music video on March 23, 2012. The video was shot on the streets of Amsterdam, and directed by Mickey Finnegan.Far East Movement also worked with producers such as David Guetta, Cherry Cherry Boom Boom (aka Cherrytree founder/president Martin Kierszenbaum), will.i.am and RedOne. In September 2012, the group performed in Charlotte with Perez Hilton as part of the 2012 Democratic National Convention. On October 22, 2012, they released a new single, "For All" which they then performed at then President Barack Obama's re-election inauguration.
Far East Movement also performed the official theme song for the first season of the American-Japanese animated series Monsuno, which airs in the United States on Nicktoons.
In January 2013, "Get Up (Rattle)," a song by the Bingo Players on which they were featured, topped the charts in the United Kingdom. It remained at the top of the UK Singles Chart for two weeks before being dethroned by "Thrift Shop" by Macklemore & Ryan Lewis. "Turn Up the Love", a track from "Dirty Bass", reached the top 5 on the overall singles charts in over a dozen countries.
On April 29, 2013, Far East Movement released the song "Lovetron", featuring Travis Garland. On June 2, 2013, they released the song "The Illest", featuring Riff Raff. On January 9, 2014, they released the song "Bang It To The Curb", featuring Sidney Samson. Their EP KTown Riot was released on October 28, 2014.

2016: Identity and J-Splif's Departure
On September 21, 2016, S.M Entertainment, one of the largest entertainment companies in South Korea, announced that Chanyeol, from popular K-pop band EXO, would be collaborating with Far East Movement in their track "Freal Luv", which also features Tinashe and Marshmello.On October 10, 2016, Starship Entertainment announced that Hyolyn, from K-pop girl-group Sistar, would be featured in a new song titled "Umbrella".
Both songs were included in the band's fifth studio album, Identity, released on October 21. It features various Korean artists, such as Tiffany from Girls' Generation, rappers Yoon Mi-rae, Jay Park, Loco and R&B group Urban Zakapa, along with American singer-songwriter Macy Gray, rapper Soulja Boy and credits from British singer-producer MNEK. Identity debuted at #1 on the global iTunes dance charts. The music video for "Freal Luv" was viewed over  30 million times on YouTube.
On October 14, 2016, Far East Movement released "We Out Here" featuring Blackbear and Thurz.
On November 23, 2016, Far East Movement announced that J-Splif had left the group due to family reasons.

2017–present: International collaborations
On October 26, 2018, Far East Movement released a song titled "Bamboo" which features vocals from Jason Zhang and Kina Grannis.
On February 8, 2019, Far East Movement released a single titled "Blossoms" which features Troop Brand and Chinese rapper Vava.
On March 14, 2019, Far East Movement released a single titled "Lovebird" which features Lay.
On April 19, 2019, Far East Movement released a single titled "Paint the Clouds" which features vocals from Tia Ray.
On June 21, 2019, Far East Movement released a single titled "Maps", featuring Diamond, Starchild Yeezo, and Rell the Soundbender.
On July 26, 2019, Far East Movement released a single titled "Glue", featuring Heize and Shawn Wasabi.

Discography
Folk Music (2006)
Animal (2009)
Free Wired (2010)
Dirty Bass (2012)
Identity (2016)

Filmography
Members
DJ Virman joined the group in 2007. Before joining Far East Movement, he was working as a DJ for the Power 106 radio station in Los Angeles.
On  November 23 2016, the group announced that J-Splif had left the group due to family issues.

Current Members
Kev Nish (Kevin Nishimura, born January 12, 1984) (2003–present)
Prohgress (James Roh, born January 14, 1980) (2003–present)
DJ Virman (Virman Coquia, born January 24, 1982) (2007–present)

Former Members
J-Splif (Jae Choung, born February 11, 1984) (2003-2014)

See also
List of artists who reached number one in the United States
Passage 4:
B*Witched discography
The discography of B*Witched, an Irish pop girl group, consists of two studio albums, two extended plays, two compilation albums, two video albums and 13 singles (including one as part of a collective). The group released their debut single "C'est la Vie" on 25 May 1998. Despite mixed reviews, it reached Number 1 on the UK charts, making them the youngest female group ever to do so, and also made Number 9 in the US. Subsequent singles "Rollercoaster", "To You I Belong" and "Blame It on the Weatherman" also topped the UK charts. The group's debut album, B*Witched, was released in October 1998, reaching Number 3 in the UK charts and was certified Double Platinum in the UK and Platinum in the US. B*Witched's second album, Awake and Breathe, released almost exactly a year after their debut, peaked at number 5 on the charts and was certified Platinum. Singles from the album were less successful than earlier releases ("Jesse Hold On" reached number 4, "I Shall Be There" number 13 and "Jump Down" number 16 in the UK). The latter two appeared on their new American EP, Across America 2000, along with live tracks and the earlier cover of "Does Your Mother Know". However, in September 2002, the group officially split when O'Carroll decided to leave the band.On 18 October 2012, it was announced that B*Witched would reunite for the ITV2 reality documentary series The Big Reunion. In May 2013 B*Witched unveiled a new song called "Love and Money". During a radio interview in October 2013, Edele Lynch confirmed that the group would release new material in September 2014. In December, they announced via PledgeMusic that they had recorded their first ever EP, entitled Champagne or Guinness. It was released on 28 September 2014 alongside the single "The Stars Are Ours".

Albums
Studio albums
Compilations
Video albums
Extended plays
Singles
As main artist
As featured artist
Other appearances
Music videos
Passage 5:
Ain't Love a Bitch
"Ain't Love a Bitch" is a song written by Gary Grainger and Rod Stewart. Stewart released it on his 1978 album Blondes Have More Fun, and it was one of four songs on the album co-written by Stewart and Grainger. The song was released as a single in 1979, reaching #11 on the UK charts, and #22 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in the United States. It spent 8 weeks on the UK charts and 6 weeks on the US charts. The song also reached the Top Ten in several countries, including Ireland. Billboard magazine placed Stewart #7 on its list of the Top Single Artists of 1979 on the strength of "Ain't Love a Bitch" and its predecessor, "Da Ya Think I'm Sexy?".Stewart performed the song on Dave Allen's Dave Allen at Large. A video of the song was included on the DVD included in the deluxe editions of the compilation album Some Guys Have All the Luck / The Definitive Rod Stewart.

Background
Rolling Stone critic Janet Maslin excoriated the song as being "unexpectedly sensitive, with a soft, strum-along melody and a bunch of namby-pamby characters doo-doo-doing a background chorus while Stewart croons about old girlfriends."   She further criticizes the song for taking material that could have been tough and making it sound "like the 1400th cover version of 'I Left My Heart in San Francisco.'" CD Review commented on the references within "Ain't Love a Bitch" to Stewart's earlier song "Maggie May", describing the music as "bouncy". High Fidelity objected to the lyrics blaming women for love's problems. The Albany Herald also noted that the song is autobiographical, and incorporates elements from Stewart's "musical and personal past." Stereo Review described the song as a "repellent frat-house love song". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of Allmusic described the song as being in the same mold as "Da Ya Think I'm Sexy?". Author Barry Alan Farber described the line "Ain't we all a little juvenile" as encapsulating the way people retain pieces of their adolescence into adulthood.  Cash Box called it a "return to the...balladeering  of 'Tonight's The Night'" after the disco success of "Do Ya Think I'm Sexy" and said the song has "gentle, soothing acoustic guitar work, strings, and light drumming."  Record World said that "The rhythm is light and [Stewart's] vocals have a music hall quality."

Chart performance
Passage 6:
Pinball Wizard
"Pinball Wizard" is a song written by Pete Townshend and performed by the English rock band the Who, featured on their 1969 rock opera album Tommy. The original recording was released as a single in 1969 and reached No. 4 in the UK charts and No. 19 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.
The B-side of the "Pinball Wizard" single is an instrumental credited to Keith Moon, titled "Dogs Part Two".  Despite the title, it has no musical connection to the Who's 1968 UK single "Dogs".

Story
The lyrics are written from the perspective of a pinball champion, called "Local Lad" in the Tommy libretto book, astounded by the skills of the opera's eponymous main character, Tommy Walker: "He ain't got no distractions / Can't hear those buzzers and bells / Don't see lights a flashin' / Plays by sense of smell / Always gets a replay / Never seen him fall / That deaf dumb and blind kid / Sure plays a mean pinball.", and "I thought I was the Bally table king, but I just handed my pinball crown to him".
Townshend once called it "the most clumsy piece of writing [he'd] ever done". Nevertheless, the song was a commercial success and remains one of the most recognised tunes from the opera. It was a perpetual concert favourite for Who fans due to its pop sound and familiarity.

Position on the album
In late 1968 or early 1969, when the Who played a rough assembly of their new album to critic Nik Cohn, Cohn gave a lukewarm reaction to it. Following this, Townshend, as Tommy's principal composer, discussed the album with Cohn and concluded that, to lighten the load of the rock opera's heavy spiritual overtones (Townshend had recently become deeply interested in the teachings of Meher Baba), the title character, a "deaf, dumb, and blind" boy, should also be particularly good at a certain game. Knowing Cohn was an avid pinball fan, Townshend suggested that Tommy would play pinball, and Cohn immediately declared Tommy to be a masterpiece. The song "Pinball Wizard" was written and recorded almost immediately. The single version was slightly sped up and runs to 2:57, whilst the natural length album version runs to 3:04.

Reception
Cash Box said "Pinball Wizard" was "sensational", saying "Retaining the joyful exaltation of early pop rock, the Who add a proficiency and modernization that clicks with the accuracy of a Beatles-gone-heavy." Billboard described the single as "a solid beat rocker." Record World described it as an "exciting side."

Live performances
This song is one of the band's most famous live songs, being played at almost every Who concert since its debut live performance on 2 May 1969. The live performances rarely deviated from the album arrangement, save for an occasional jam at the end sometimes leading to another song. Bootleg recordings show that this song has been known to last as long as 8 minutes (at a concert at the Rainbow Theatre in London on 3 February 1981), although live versions lasting as long as that are extremely rare. Pinball Wizard was also played during the Super Bowl XLIV Halftime Show on 7 February 2010.

Personnel
Roger Daltrey – lead vocals
Pete Townshend – backing vocals, co-lead vocals, acoustic guitar, electric guitar
John Entwistle – bass guitar
Keith Moon – drums

Charts and certifications
Elton John version
The song was performed by English musician Elton John in Ken Russell's 1975 film adaptation of Tommy. This version was released in 1975 as a promotional single only in the US, and in 1976 in the UK, where it reached number 7. Because it was not released as a commercial single in the US, it was ineligible to be listed on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. It did however make the US Radio & Records airplay chart, where it reached number 9.
John's version uses a piano as the song's centerpiece in place of the acoustic guitar in the original. In the film, John's character is shown playing his pinball machine via a small piano keyboard. His adaptation also features additional lyrics specially written by Townshend for the movie version, as well as a subtle inclusion of musical phrases from the Who's 1960s hit "I Can't Explain" during the outro. Similarly, the Who's later cover of Elton John's "Saturday Night's Alright for Fighting" included parts of "Take Me to the Pilot". Unlike most of the soundtrack's music, which featured various combinations of the Who and some of the era's best session players, Elton John used his own band and producer Gus Dudgeon for the track. John has performed the song as part of his Las Vegas Red Piano Show, as well as on various tours. To date, it is the only cover of a Who song to reach the top 10.The song has subsequently been performed by Taron Egerton who portrayed Elton John in the film Rocketman (2019).

Personnel
Elton John – lead vocals, piano
Davey Johnstone – acoustic and electric guitars, backing vocals
Dee Murray – bass, backing vocals
Nigel Olsson – drums, backing vocals
Ray Cooper – tambourine, congas

Chart performance
In Toronto, "Pinball Wizard" spent two weeks at number one on the CHUM survey. In Chicago, "Pinball Wizard" remained on the WLS Musicradio Survey as an "extra" for five and a half months, from mid-April to late September as an album track in heavy rotation.

Other cover versions
The song was featured in a medley with another song from Tommy ("See Me, Feel Me") in a recording by the British pop group the New Seekers in 1973. This version reached No. 16 on the UK charts and in Australia, and No. 28 in Canada, and No. 29 on the U.S. Hot 100.
In 1977, Barry Williams performed the song during a "Songs from Movies" medley on an episode of The Brady Bunch Variety Hour.
McFly released their cover of the song in 2005 as the B-side to their UK number one single "I'll Be OK". They subsequently performed a cover of "My Generation" with Roger Daltrey that was exclusively released on HMV's new HMV Digital download store in September of that year.
Tenacious D also regularly perform the song as a part of a medley of songs from Tommy
In 2012, during the third season of Glee, Alex Newell performed the song during national competition.

In popular culture
The track is featured on the video games Rock Band 2, Rock Band Unplugged and Karaoke Revolution: American Idol Encore 2, as well as on The Who's Tommy Pinball Wizard.
Bruce Springsteen makes a reference to the song in his song "4th of July, Asbury Park (Sandy)", in the album The Wild, the Innocent, & the E Street Shuffle, with the lyric "And the wizards play down on Pinball Way".
Within the pinball community, using the phrase Pinball Wizard to describe a high quality player is common, though sometimes controversial. 
In 2011, the American animated comedy television series SpongeBob SquarePants parodied "Pinball Wizard" with the song "Neat Clarinet" in the eighth season episode "Sweet and Sour Squid."
Passage 7:
Martina McBride discography
The discography of American country music artist Martina McBride consists of 14 studio albums, one live album, eight compilation albums, two video albums, three additional albums, 45 music videos, 51 singles, 16 other charting songs, and 45 album appearances. In 1991, she signed a recording contract with RCA Nashville, launching her debut studio album The Time Has Come in 1992. In September 1993, her second studio album The Way That I Am was issued. Its lead single "My Baby Loves Me" reached number 2 on the Billboard Hot Country Songs chart, becoming her breakthrough hit. The third single "Independence Day" peaked in the Top 20 and became McBride's signature song. The song's success elevated sales of The Way That I Am to platinum status from the Recording Industry Association of America. Wild Angels was released in September 1995 and reached number seventeen on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart. The album's title track became McBride's first song to top the Hot Country Songs chart. McBride's fourth studio album Evolution was released in August 1997 and is her best-selling album to date, certifying three times platinum in the United States. The album spawned six singles which all became major hits including, "A Broken Wing", "Wrong Again", and "Whatever You Say". After releasing a holiday album, McBride's fifth studio album Emotion was issued in September 1999. The lead single "I Love You" topped the Hot Country Songs chart, while also reaching minor positions on the Adult Contemporary and Billboard Hot 100 charts.In 2001, McBride released her first Greatest Hits project, becoming her first album to top the Top Country Albums chart. All four of the album's new tracks were single releases including the number one single "Blessed". Martina (2003) certified double platinum in the United States and featured the top 5 singles "This One's for the Girls" and "In My Daughter's Eyes". McBride's seventh studio album entitled Timeless (2005) contained a series of classic country songs, debuting atop the country albums chart and the top ten of the Billboard 200. In 2007, McBride returned with her eighth studio record entitled Waking Up Laughing, which debuted in the top five of the Billboard country albums chart and Billboard 200. The album featured original songwriting material by McBride herself, including "Anyway", the album's lead single. After recording a live album in 2008, McBride's next studio album entitled Shine (2009) was issued. The album spawned three singles that reached the Top 20 on the country songs chart. Switching to Republic Nashville, Eleven was released in October 2011. Debuting at number 4 on the country albums chart, the album's second single "I'm Gonna Love You Through It" became a major hit in 2012. Under the production of Don Was, McBride released her twelfth studio record Everlasting (2014) that featured covers of R&B songs. Since her debut, Martina McBride has sold over 14 million albums, according to the Recording Industry Association of America.

Albums
Studio albums
Live albums
Compilation albums
Other albums
Singles
As lead artist
As guest artist
Other charted songs
Videography
Video albums
Music videos
As lead artist
As guest artist
Other appearances
Notes
Passage 8:
Tommy (album)
Tommy may refer to:

People
Tommy (given name)
Tommy Atkins, or just Tommy, a slang term for a common soldier in the British Army

Arts and entertainment
Film and television
Tommy (1931 film), a Soviet drama film
Tommy (1975 film), a British operetta film based on the Who's album Tommy
Tommy (2015 film), a Telugu drama film
Tommy (TV series), a 2020 American drama series

Literature
Tommy (King poem), by Stephen King, 2010
Tommy (Kipling poem), by Rudyard Kipling, 1892

Music
Tommy (The Who album), 1969
Tommy (London Symphony Orchestra album), 1972
Tommy (soundtrack), a soundtrack to the 1975 film
The Who's Tommy, a stage production, premiered 1992
Tommy (The Wedding Present album), 1988
Tommy (Dosh album), 2010
Tommy (EP), a 2017 EP by Klein
Tommy, a 2022 EP by Kiesza
Tommy, a 1965 album by Tommy Adderley
Tommy, a 1970 EP by The Who
"Tommy", a 1991 song by Status Quo from the album Rock 'til You Drop

Other uses in arts and entertainment
Tommy, a 1927 play, the basis of the 1930 film She's My Weakness
Tommy (statue), a statue of a Great War soldier in Seaham, England

Other uses
Tommy (pigeon), who received the Dickin Medal in 1946
British Rail Class 76, an electric locomotive, the prototype of which was named "Tommy"
Thomson's gazelle, an animal known as a "tommy"
Quarry Tommy a slate quarry near Cilgerran, Wales

See also
All pages with titles beginning with Tommy
Tommie, a masculine given name
Thompson submachine gun, also known as the "tommy gun"
Apache TomEE, the Java Enterprise Edition of Apache Tomcat
Tommy's (charity), associated with St Thomas' Hospital, London
Tomm (disambiguation)
Passage 9:
Jeremih
Jeremy Phillip Felton (born July 17, 1987), known professionally as Jeremih ( JERR-əm-eye), is an American R&B singer. In 2009, he signed a record deal with Def Jam Recordings. Jeremih's commercial debut single, "Birthday Sex", peaked at number four on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart—leading his self-titled debut album released in June that year, reaching number six on the US Billboard 200 chart. Jeremih's success continued with the release of his second album, All About You, led by the single "Down on Me" (featuring 50 Cent), which also reached the top five of the Billboard Hot 100. In 2014, his single "Don't Tell 'Em" (featuring YG) became his third top-ten hit on the Billboard Hot 100. The song became the lead single for his third studio album, Late Nights released in December 2015. A collaborative album between Jeremih and California singer Ty Dolla Sign, titled MihTy, was released in 2018.

Early life
Born in Chicago, Illinois, Jeremih began playing drums at the age of three and is able to play the saxophone, several percussion instruments, and piano/keyboards. He attended Morgan Park High School, where he was part of the marching band as well as a Latin jazz band. He also learned to play percussion instruments like congas and timbales. Felton was a good student and earned academic honors at Morgan Park High School. His strong academic performance enabled him to graduate from high school a year early. He enrolled at the University of Illinois and Parkland College in Urbana-Champaign. After spending a semester at the university studying engineering, he wanted to change his education to something related to music. He transferred to Columbia College Chicago in 2007 to pursue a degree in music business. After performing a tribute to Ray Charles at one of the campus's talent shows, he received positive feedback and realized his vocal ability, saying that the "music was just taking over".

Career
2009–2011: Jeremih and All About You
While attending Columbia College Chicago, Jeremih collaborated with record producer Mick Schultz. Together, they recorded a song, titled "My Ride". Jeremih received guidance from his cousin, Day26 group member, Willie Taylor. In February 2009, Jeremih met with Def Jam's CEO Russell Simmons, and executive vice president of A&R Karen Kwak. After performing for the two, Jeremih signed a recording contract with Def Jam that same day. In 2009, Jeremih released his debut single, "Birthday Sex". The song later peaked at number 4 on the US Billboard Hot 100. In June 2009, Jeremih released his eponymous self-titled debut studio album, Jeremih. The album debuted at number 6 on the US Billboard 200, selling 59,000 copies in its first week. In promotion of the album, Jeremih took part in America's Most Wanted Tour, alongside Lil Wayne, Young Jeezy, and Soulja Boy Tell 'Em. The second single, "Imma Star (Everywhere We Are)", peaked at number 51 on the Billboard Hot 100.In August 2009, Jeremih was selected by Ron Huberman and Mayor Richard M. Daley of the Chicago Public Schools (CPS) to campaign children to return to school. Community activists protested and demanded CPS to undo their decision, claiming that Jeremih's music was "not appropriate for students" and "promotes teen sex". Huberman argued that "school officials would be naive to pretend students don't listen to Felton's music already". Daley also argued that recording artists have the freedom of speech, noting that Jeremih was "a young man, [with a] back-to-school message, a young man who has had great success recording, producer, going to school, went to public school". In September 2009, Jeremih performed on ABC Daytime's soap opera One Life to Live, alongside recording artist Lionel Richie. The two performed "Just Go", a song from Richie's album with the same title.On June 1, 2010, Jeremih released the first single for his second studio album All About You, titled "I Like" featuring Ludacris. "Down on Me" featuring rapper 50 Cent was confirmed to be the second single from the album. "Down on Me" charted on the number-one position for eight weeks total on Rhythmic Billboard chart. All About You was released on September 28, 2010. The following year, Jeremih and Rick Ross were featured on the song, which was performed by Wale, titled "That Way" from the compilation album Self Made Vol. 1.

2012–2015: Late Nights
In December 2011, Jeremih confirmed he had been working on his third studio album which was originally titled Thumpy Johnson. He announced plans from a summer 2012 release under Def Jam. However, the album was not released. Instead, Jeremih released his first mixtape titled Late Nights with Jeremih on August 7, 2012.On November 5, 2014, Jeremih and members of his crew were involved in an incident at a Fuddruckers restaurant in Billings, MT in which Jeremih's associates allegedly "hassled"[2] a young female restaurant employee and a manager for discriminating against them. Members of Jeremih's crew responded to the alleged racism by taking over the restaurant's microphone, throwing beer onto employees, and allegedly throwing a glass beer bottle into the kitchen, getting broken glass into the fryer and forcing the restaurant to close temporarily.[3] The Billings Police Department sought but never issued arrest warrants in response to the incident.[4] Surveillance footage of the altercation was published by TMZ, and the concert promoter for Jeremih's Billings performance offered refunds to audience members and renounced the actions taken by Jeremih and his crew. [5]
"All the Time" is a song which originally appeared on his mixtape Late Nights with Jeremih but was re-released with an additional verse by rapper Lil Wayne as a single. The song was released on April 16, 2013, as a digital download. On July 17, 2014, Jeremih formally released his collaborative EP "No More" with Shlohmo through his Twitter account.The first single off Jeremih's third studio album (retitled Late Nights: The Album), "Don't Tell 'Em" featuring YG, was released on June 6, 2014. The second single, "Planez" featuring J. Cole was released on January 22, 2015. The first promotional single "Tonight Belongs to U!" featuring Flo Rida was released on April 21, 2015. The third single, "Oui" was released on October 30, 2015. The second promotional single, "Royalty" featuring Big Sean and Future, was released October 29, 2015. The third promotional single "Peace Sign" featuring Fabolous and Red Cafe was released November 18, 2015. The fourth single, "Pass Dat" was released December 1, 2015. On December 4, Jeremih finally released the album to critical acclaim. To promote the album, Jeremih embarked on his Late Nights Uncut Tour.

2016–present: MihTy
On February 7, 2016, Jeremih revealed his fourth studio album will be called, Later That Night in an interview with Billboard. In the same interview, he mentioned he had been recently writing songs for Kanye West and Nicki Minaj. In the summer of 2016, Jeremih headlined his first European concert tour. In July 2016, Jeremih released his second mixtape called Late Nights: Europe, which he recorded while on tour overseas. He stated that he was 90% done with his upcoming album Later That Night that would complete his "Late Night" series.In June 2016, Jeremih announced a joint album with PartyNextDoor titled Late Night Party, which he said would be released before Later That Night. Following this announcement, the two artists headlined a joint tour called Summer's Over Tour scheduled for November and December 2016. In the last week of the tour, it was announced that Jeremih would removed from the tour. The decision came after Jeremih left the stage mid-performance in Chicago, sent a body-double to perform in Houston, and criticized PartyNextDoor on stage in Dallas. A few months later, Jeremih stated that there were arguments between the two artists' teams, but he had no ill will towards PartyNextDoor.On Cinco de Mayo 2017, Jeremih released an EP, Cinco De MihYo, which he had written and recorded in 24 hours. In March 2018, Jeremih released an EP titled The Chocolate Box. Pitchfork stated, "When his projects are well-considered, or made with hyper-focused collaborators, he can be the most enchanting man in the room," but called one of the four tracks awkward and bored.On June 8, 2018, Jeremih and Ty Dolla Sign released "The Light" as the lead single from their collaboration album MihTy. The 11-track album was released on October 26, 2018, and features guest appearances from Chris Brown, French Montana, and Wiz Khalifa.In July 2018, Jeremih announced a joint tour with singer Teyana Taylor called Later That Night. The tour dates were from August 3 through September 8 in the United States. On August 15, Teyana tweeted that she would be leaving the tour due to mistreatment from Jeremih.In 2019, Jeremih was featured in Chantel Jeffries' song and music video "Chase the Summer". In March 2020, Jeremih was featured on the remix for "Baby Girl" by Bryce Vine. On May 3, 2021, DJ Khaled released a music video for his song "Thankful" from his album Khaled Khaled featuring Jeremih and Lil Wayne.After a long hiatus from recording, Jeremih released his comeback single, "Changes", on October 21, 2022.In April 2023, he introduced his first protégé, Illinois singer Murf Dilly, to the music scene with his debut single "2 C's". The song featured Jeremih as a guest vocalist and was released on his newly established Late Nightz Records.

Musical style
Jeremih cited Michael Jackson, Stevie Wonder, and R. Kelly as his biggest influences. He described their music as "timeless", calling them "true musician-artists". With the release of his debut album, Andy Kellman of Allmusic compared Jeremih's vocals to Slim of 112 and Raphael Saadiq, noting that his "charmingly sly voice...is hard to not like". In contrast, Ken Capobianco of The Boston Globe felt that Jeremih's voice was "thin", showing "little range". Jody Rosen expressed that Jeremih "has a way with tunes and hooks". He received comparisons to The-Dream, R. Kelly, and Stevie Wonder.

Health
In November 2020, Jeremih was hospitalized in Chicago after testing positive for COVID-19. By November 14, he was reported to be on a ventilator in the intensive care unit. He was taken off the ventilator on November 19 but remained in critical condition. His spokesman said Jeremih has no underlying conditions. Jeremih was transferred out of intensive care on November 21, into a general hospital to make a full recovery. He was released from the hospital on December 4.

Discography
Studio albumsJeremih (2009)
All About You (2010)
Late Nights (2015)

Awards and nominations
MOBO AwardsThe Music of Black Origin Awards (MOBO Awards) is an awards ceremony established in 1995 by Kanya King.

American Music AwardsThe American Music Awards is an annual awards ceremony created by Dick Clark in 1973.

Grammy AwardsNAACP AwardsAn NAACP Image Award is an accolade presented by the American National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to honor outstanding people of color in film, television, music, and literature.

Chicago Music AwardsThe Chicago Music Awards is an annual awards ceremony for music artist professionals to get recognized for their talents and hard work.  Ephraim Martin, CMA President, is the founder.

Billboard Music AwardsThe Billboard Music Award is an honor given by Billboard magazine, the preeminent publication covering the music business. The Billboard Music Awards show had been held annually in December until it went dormant in 2007, but it returned in May 2011. By Billboard Music Award.

iHeartRadio Music AwardsThe iheartRadio award honors the biggest Artists and Songs of the year.
Passage 10:
Train discography
American rock band Train has released 11 studio albums, two live albums, one compilation album, one video album, four extended plays, 34 singles, six promotional singles, and 29 music videos. The band independently released their eponymous debut studio album in 1996, two years after their formation. In February 1998, the band signed to Aware Records and Columbia Records and re-released the album under the two labels. Three singles were released from Train; the album's first single, "Meet Virginia", peaked at number 20 on the US Billboard Hot 100. The album peaked at number 76 on the US Billboard 200 and was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). In the period following the release of Train, producer Brendan O'Brien started working with the band in a partnership that would last for three albums. The band released their second studio album Drops of Jupiter in March 2001; it was preceded by the release of its lead single, "Drops of Jupiter (Tell Me)". The single became a commercial success, peaking at number five on the US Billboard Hot 100 and also becoming a top 10 hit in Australia, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. "Drops of Jupiter (Tell Me)" also won an award for Best Rock Song at the 44th Grammy Awards. The album peaked at number six on the Billboard 200, earning a double platinum certification from the RIAA. "She's on Fire", the third single from Drops of Jupiter, achieved moderate success in Australia and the UK. Train's third studio album, My Private Nation, was released in June 2003. It peaked at number six on the Billboard 200 and was certified platinum by the RIAA. The album's first two singles, "Calling All Angels" and "When I Look to the Sky", peaked at numbers 19 and 74 respectively on the Billboard Hot 100. The band released their fourth studio album For Me, It's You in January 2006. The album peaked at number 10 on the Billboard 200 and spawned three singles.Following a three-year hiatus, Train released the single "Hey, Soul Sister" in 2009. It became an international hit, peaking at number three on the Billboard Hot 100, topping the charts in Australia and the Netherlands and becoming a top 10 hit in multiple other countries. Save Me, San Francisco, the band's fifth studio album, was released in October 2009. For the album, the band worked with several producers, including Martin Terefe and Gregg Wattenberg. It peaked at number 17 on the Billboard 200, earning a gold certification from the RIAA. The album's second and third singles, "If It's Love" and "Marry Me", became top 40 hits on the Billboard Hot 100. In April 2012, Train released their sixth studio album California 37; it peaked at number four on the Billboard 200. The album's lead single "Drive By" peaked at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 and also became a top 10 hit in multiple other countries. Bulletproof Picasso followed in September 2014, peaking at number five on the Billboard 200, and was succeeded by the releases of the Christmas album Christmas in Tahoe in November 2015 and the Led Zeppelin tribute Train Does Led Zeppelin II in June 2016. A Girl, a Bottle, a Boat, the band's 10th studio album, was released in January 2017, peaking at number eight on the Billboard 200.

Albums
Studio albums
Live albums
Compilation albums
Video albums
Extended plays
Singles
Promotional singles
Other charted songs
Other appearances
Music videos
Notes