Passage 1:
Mimosa
Mimosa is a genus of about 590 species of herbs and shrubs, in the mimosoid clade of the legume family Fabaceae. The generic name is derived from the Greek word μῖμος (mimos), an "actor" or "mime", and the feminine suffix -osa, "resembling", suggesting its 'sensitive leaves' which seem to 'mimic conscious life'.Two species in the genus are especially notable. One is Mimosa pudica, commonly known as touch-me-not, which folds its leaves when touched or exposed to heat. It is native to southern Central and South America but is widely cultivated elsewhere for its curiosity value, both as a houseplant in temperate areas, and outdoors in the tropics. Outdoor cultivation has led to weedy invasion in some areas, notably Hawaii. The other is Mimosa tenuiflora, which is best known for its use in shamanic ayahuasca brews due to the psychedelic drug dimethyltryptamine found in its root bark.

Taxonomy
The taxonomy of the genus Mimosa has gone through several periods of splitting and lumping, ultimately accumulating over 3,000 names, many of which have either been synonymized under other species or transferred to other genera. In part due to these changing circumscriptions, the name "Mimosa" has also been applied to several other related species with similar pinnate or bipinnate leaves, but are now classified in other genera. The most common examples of this are Albizia julibrissin (Persian silk tree) and Acacia dealbata (wattle).

Description
Members of this genus are among the few plants capable of rapid movement; examples outside of Mimosa include the telegraph plant, Aldrovanda, some species of Drosera and the Venus flytrap. The leaves of the Mimosa pudica close quickly when touched. Some mimosas raise their leaves in the day and lower them at night, and experiments done by Jean-Jacques d'Ortous de Mairan on mimosas in 1729 provided the first evidence of biological clocks.Mimosa can be distinguished from the large related genera, Acacia and Albizia, since its flowers have ten or fewer stamens. Botanically, what appears to be a single globular flower is actually a cluster of many individual ones. Mimosas contain some level of heptanoic acid.

Species
There are about 590 species including:
Mimosa aculeaticarpa Ortega
Mimosa andina Benth.
Mimosa arenosa (Willd.) Poir.
Mimosa asperata L.
Mimosa borealis Gray
Mimosa caesalpiniaefolia Benth.
Mimosa casta L.
Mimosa cupica Gray
Mimosa ceratonia L.
Mimosa diplotricha C.Wright ex Sauvalle
Mimosa disperma Barneby
Mimosa distachya Cav.
Mimosa dysocarpa Benth.
Mimosa emoryana Benth.
Mimosa grahamii Gray
Mimosa hamata Willd.
Mimosa hystricina (Small ex Britt. et Rose) B.L.Turner
Mimosa invisa Martius ex Colla
Mimosa latidens (Small) B.L. Turner
Mimosa laxiflora Benth.
Mimosa loxensis Barneby
Mimosa malacophylla Gray
Mimosa microphylla Dry.
Mimosa nothacacia Barneby
Mimosa nuttallii (DC.) B.L. Turner
Mimosa ophthalmocentra Mart. ex Benth. 1865
Mimosa pellita Kunth ex Willd.
Mimosa pigra L.
Mimosa polycarpa Kunth
Mimosa pudica L.
Mimosa quadrivalvis L.
Mimosa quadrivalvis var. hystricina (Small) Barneby
Mimosa quadrivalvis var. quadrivalvis L.
Mimosa roemeriana Scheele
Mimosa rubicaulis Lam.
Mimosa rupertiana B.L. Turner
Mimosa scabrella Benth.
Mimosa schomburgkii Benth.
Mimosa somnians Humb. & Bonpl. ex Willd.
Mimosa strigillosa Torr. et Gray
Mimosa tenuiflora (Willd.) Poir. (= Mimosa hostilis)
Mimosa texana (Gray) Small
Mimosa townsendii Barneby
Mimosa turneri Barneby
Mimosa verrucosa Benth.
Passage 2:
Mimosa somnians
Mimosa somnians, commonly known as dormideira, is a species of woody shrub in the genus Mimosa and the family Fabaceae. It is native to the Caribbean, Central America and South America. It is a short, low-lying shrub with minuscule thorns lining its stem-like hairs.Mimosa somnians is notable for exhibiting rapid plant movement. Its leaves are sensitive to tactile stimulus, folding quickly when touched, similar to Mimosa pudica. It can be differentiated from Mimosa pudica in that its leaves are bipinnate, there are more than four subbranchlets and these originate from more than one point on the branch.Mimosa somnians's leaflets are 4–5 mm long. The flowers form pink balls. It propagates by seeds.

Forms, subspecies and varieties
Mimosa somnians f. viscida
Mimosa somnians subsp. longipes 
Mimosa somnians subsp. viscida
Mimosa somnians var. aquatica
Mimosa somnians var. deminuta
Mimosa somnians var. diminuta
Mimosa somnians var. glandulosa
Mimosa somnians var. lasiocarpa
Mimosa somnians var. leptocaulis
Mimosa somnians var. longipes
Mimosa somnians var. lupulina
Mimosa somnians var. possensis
Mimosa somnians var. somnians
Mimosa somnians var. velascoensis
Mimosa somnians var. viscida

Uses
In Guyana, it is used to calm down irritable children via washing.

Chemical constituents
Mimosa somnians contains (whole plant) about 0.029% tryptamine and about 0.029% methyltryptamine.
Passage 3:
Mimosa turneri
Mimosa turneri, the desert mimosa, is a perennial small- to medium-sized shrub native to the Southern United States and particularly abundant in Texas. It grows between 3.5 and 10 feet (1.1 and 3.0 m) tall and produces pink flowers. In many places it is considered a weed because it can grow invasively in moist soils.

Habitat and ecology
This species grows as a small to medium-sized shrub that is localized on limestone soil that can range from 2200 feet to 4000 feet above sea level in the desert. This plant is deciduous and has a very high heat tolerance, allowing it to grow in very hot deserts. This plant species was a contained species that escaped and became invasive in the Florida, Texas and Mexico regions. These plants live in soil with high alkalinity.

Morphology
The leaves of the desert mimosa resemble the fronds of a fern and consists of many leaflets that grow opposite of each other along the stem. The leaves are known as bipinnate. Leaflets can range from 9 mm to 12 mm and be 1.5 mm wide at its widest point. Each leaf has about 12- 25 leaflets. Flowers are globe like clusters of thin petals. They contain stamens that are double the number of petals or equal which are often twice the lengths of the corolla. Anthers are small and the ovary is sessile.

Usage
The desert mimosa is often used as food for cattle and livestock, as fuel, construction material as well as living fences that grow into barriers in the wild and can be used as decorative fences.
Passage 4:
Mimosa aculeaticarpa
Mimosa aculeaticarpa is a species of woody shrub in the family Fabaceae. It is commonly known as the catclaw mimosa or the wait-a-minute bush, and is endemic to upland regions of Mexico and the Southwestern United States, particularly Arizona, New Mexico and Texas.

Description
The catclaw mimosa is a straggling thicket forming shrub, usually growing to about one metre tall but occasionally double that height. The twigs are hairy and armed with backward pointing spines that easily catch in clothing. The alternate leaves are bi-pinnate with a varying number of small oblong leaflets. The flowers are white or pale pink, bunched together in globular heads. The fruits are flat pods up to four centimetres long, flattened between the seeds and splitting open when ripe. There are recurved prickles on the edges of the pods.

Distribution
This species grows in upland areas of central and southern Arizona, southern New Mexico, western and central Texas and northern Mexico.

Ecology
This species occurs as scattered individual plants in oak, oak-pine, and evergreen woodlands, pinyon-juniper woodland and mixed with other shrubs in grassland and shrub-steppe communities. It grows on mesas, rocky slopes and gravel deposits. It is commonly found growing in chaparral and is spreading into desert and semi arid areas. This may be because the seed pods are eaten by cattle and the seeds are deposited in the dung, giving them a rich environment for germination. The plant is fire tolerant and sprouts readily after bushfires. In upland areas of west Texas, the redberry juniper (Juniperus pinchotii) acts as a nurse plant for the seedlings.  They benefit from the shade and leaf litter associated with the juniper which seems to provide a favourable microclimate for the establishment of the seedlings.
Passage 5:
Mimosa invisa
Mimosa invisa is a species of leguminous woody shrub or vine native to South America. Mimosa invisa includes two subspecies, each with two varieties:  The species is considered to be noxious and invasive in much of the United States.
Mimosa invisa Martius ex CollaMimosa invisa invisa BarnebyMimosa invisa invisa var. invisa Barneby - native to Brazil and Paraguay
Mimosa invisa invisa var. macrostachya (Bentham) Barneby - native to Brazil and ParaguayMimosa invisa spiciflora (Karsten) BarnebyMimosa invisa spiciflora var. spiciflora Barneby - native to northern South America
Mimosa invisa spiciflora var. tovarensis (Bentham) Barneby - native to Venezuela
Passage 6:
Mimosa rubicaulis
Mimosa rubicaulis is a shrub belonging to the family Fabaceae and subfamily Mimosoideae. It is bipinnately compound, each leaf having 8–12 pairs of pinnae, each with 16–20 pairs of pinnules, unlike Mimosa pudica which has at most two prickly pairs of leaflets. It is found across India.

Description
Mimosa rubicaulis is a large, straggling, very prickly shrub. It flowers from June to September, sporting long clusters of many pink spherical flower heads 1–1.5 cm across. The flowers fade to white, so the clusters sport both pink and white flower-heads most of the time. Leaves are double-compound, 8–15 cm long, with thorny rachis. Leaves have 3–2 pairs of side-stalks, each with 6–15 pairs of tiny oblong leaflets 4–8 mm. Pods are thin, flat, curved, 8–13 cm long, 1 cm wide, breaking into 4–10 rectangular single-seeded units, leaving the remains of the pod attached to the shoot.It is considered useful for hedges. The wood is suitable for tent pegs and for making gunpowder charcoal. Roots and leaves are used medicinally. Himalayan Mimosa is found in the Himalayas, from Afghanistan to Bhutan, at altitudes of 300–1900 m. It prefers forest edges and boundaries of fields and gardens.
Passage 7:
Mimosa hamata
Mimosa hamata (Hindi:Alāy shrub (अलाय) is a species of flowering shrub in the family Fabaceae, that is native to the countries of India and Pakistan.

Uses
This plant has been used for animal feed.
Passage 8:
Cryptocoryne
Cryptocoryne is a genus of aquatic plants from the family Araceae. The genus is naturally distributed in tropical regions of India, Southeast Asia and New Guinea.The typical habitats of Cryptocoryne are mostly streams and rivers with not too rapidly flowing water, in the lowland forest. They also live in seasonally inundated forest pools or on river banks submerged only at high water. Although the proper scientific name of the genus is Cryptocoryne, they are commonly referred to as crypts. The English name "water trumpet" refers to their inflorescence, a spadix enclosed by a spathe (typical for the whole family), which resembles a trumpet.
The first Cryptocoryne species was described in 1779 as Arum spirale by Retzius. The genus was described by Friedrich Ernst Ludwig von Fischer in 1828. However, the scientific classification of Cryptocoryne species is very complicated and there are different opinions about it. Lagenandra is another genus closely related to the genus Cryptocoryne. The two can be easily told apart since the leaves of Cryptocoryne species exhibit convolute vernation whereas Lagenandra species exhibit involute vernation.

The name Cryptocoryne is derived from the Greek crypto, hidden, and koryne, meaning club. The common name (water trumpet) refers to the shape of its inflorescence, which is typical of the Araceae family.

Cultivation and uses
Some Cryptocoryne are popular commercially cultivated aquarium plants. Submerged plants reproduce vegetatively, emerse plants may flower and reproduce sexually. Many species are cultivated only by dedicated experts and are very hard to grow, or are not present in a culture at all. Some species are endangered because their natural habitats are disappearing. On the other hand, some water trumpets (e.g. Cryptocoryne beckettii) are very hardy aquarium plants, easy to grow to the point that they have become an invasive species after being introduced in Florida in North America.Cryptocoryne is either found in peat bogs or on limestone; the latter do well in most aquaria, the former must have soft water to survive and need decomposing beech leaf litter to do well. C. striolata, while found primarily in peat bogs, has also been found growing on limestone. Borneo is home to many endemic crypts previously thought to grow only in tea-colored soft acid water emulating peat bogs but exploration of habitats from 2005 to 2010 showed about half grew on limestone as well. These hardwater Cryptocorynes are generally the easier ones to keep (in fact, some species, such as Cryptocoryne wendtii are said to be among the most versatile of aquarium plants); they tolerate low or bright light but grow faster in more intense light. This water plant's range is around 12 to 33 °C, and slightly alkaline to neutral pH.
Plants of the genus Cryptocoryne, which range from India to New Guinea are found in very diverse conditions. Some are true acid loving plants such as C. pallidnerva, found in peat bogs in Borneo, while others such as C. crispatula var. balansae and C. pontiderifolia are found in streams with limestone beds—hard alkaline water. One species, C. ciliata is even found in semi-brackish water in some areas. It is one of the few aquarium plants that tolerates salt concentrations.
Cryptocoryne plants have been in cultivation in the aquarium hobby since the late 18th century, although it was not until the 1960s that more than a handful of species was known and became more common in the hobby. New species still regularly crop up as interest in these plants widens and more collecting expeditions by private parties are carried out.

Crypt melt
A phenomenon often encountered when planting new crypts in an aquarium is commonly called Crypt melt, whereby the plant loses all its leaves. There seem to be two possible causes for this.
Rapid environmental change is thought to trigger this, as these plants do not seem to adapt well to transplantion, and may need 30 days or so to become established and for the leaves to regrow. Experienced growers report that it is better to plant crypts in aquariums that have been established for at least three months.In the wild, crypts can grow fully submerged underwater, but in some plant nurseries they are often grown emersed and crypt melt could then be triggered by the change from emerse to submerse conditions.
There is lately a trend for such nurseries to send crypts as just a rootstock (i.e. without the leaves) to reduce shipping costs and because the leaves will be lost anyway once planted in an aquarium.
Other reports emphasise the need to change the aquarium water regularly to prevent the buildup of nitrates which are thought to trigger this condition (often referred to as a disease).

Species
Cryptocoryne affinis N.E.Br. in J.D.Hooker - Thailand, Malaysia
Cryptocoryne alba de Wit - Sri Lanka
Cryptocoryne albida R.Parker - southern China, eastern India, Bangladesh, Indochina
Cryptocoryne annamica Serebryanyi - Vietnam
Cryptocoryne aponogetifolia Merr. - Philippines
Cryptocoryne aura  - West kalimantan
Cryptocoryne auriculata Engl. - Sarawak, Philippines
Cryptocoryne bangkaensis Bastm. - Sumatra
Cryptocoryne beckettii Thuill. ex Trim. - Sri Lanka; naturalized in Texas
Cryptocoryne bogneri Rataj - Sri Lanka
Cryptocoryne bullosa Becc. - Sarawak
Cryptocoryne ciliata (Roxb.) Schott - India, Bangladesh, Indochina, Malaysia, Indonesia, New Guinea, Philippines
Cryptocoryne cognata Schott - India
Cryptocoryne consobrina Schott - India
Cryptocoryne cordata var. cordata Griff. - Malaysia
Cryptocoryne cordata var. siamensis Griff. - Thai
Cryptocoryne cordata var. diderici Griff. - Sumatra
Cryptocoryne cordata var. grandis Ridl. - Northeast Borneo
Cryptocoryne cordata var. grabowskii Engl. - South Kalimantan
Cryptocoryne cordata var. zonata de Wit. - Sri Aman
Cryptocoryne coronata Bastm. & Wijng. - Philippines
Cryptocoryne crispatula var. crispatula Engl. - Southeast Asia
Cryptocoryne cruddasiana Prain - Myanmar
Cryptocoryne decus-silvae de Wit - Johor
Cryptocoryne dewitii N.Jacobsen - Papua New Guinea
Cryptocoryne purpurea nothovar. edithiae de Wit  - South Kalimantan
Cryptocoryne elliptica N.E.Br. - Malaysia
Cryptocoryne ferruginea Engl. - Sarawak
Cryptocoryne fusca de Wit - Borneo
Cryptocoryne griffithii Schott - Kalimantan, Peninsular Malaysia
Cryptocoryne hudoroi Bogner & N.Jacobsen - Kalimantan
Cryptocoryne ideii Budianto - Kalimantan
Cryptocoryne jacobsenii de Wit - Sumatra
Cryptocoryne joshanii Naive & Villanueva - Philippines
Cryptocoryne keei N.Jacobsen - Sarawak
Cryptocoryne lingua Becc. ex Engl - Sarawak
Cryptocoryne loeiensis  Bastm., T.Idei & N.Jacobsen - Laos, Thailand
Cryptocoryne longicaudaBecc. ex Engl. - Borneo, Malaysia, Sumatra
Cryptocoryne mekongensis T.Idei, Bastm. & N.Jacobsen - Cambodia, Laos, Thailand
Cryptocoryne minima Ridl. - Malaysia, Sumatra
Cryptocoryne moehlmannii de Wit - Sumatra
Cryptocoryne nevillii Trimen - Sri Lanka
Cryptocoryne noritoi Wongso - Kalimantan
Cryptocoryne nurii var. nurii Furtado - Peninsular Malaysia
Cryptocoryne nurii var. raubensis N.Jacobsen - Peninsular Malaysia
Cryptocoryne pallidinervia Engl. - Borneo
Cryptocoryne parva de Wit- Sri Lanka
Cryptocoryne pontederiifolia Schott - Sumatra
Cryptocoryne purpurea nothovar. purpurea Ridl. - Peninsular Malaysia
Cryptocoryne purpurea nothovar. sarawakensis Yosuke Kobayashi - sarawak
Cryptocoryne purpurea nothovar. borneoensis  N.Jacobsen , Bastm. - Central Kalimantan
Cryptocoryne pygmaea Merr. - Philippines
Cryptocoryne retrospiralis  (Roxb.) Kunth - Bangladesh, India, Myanmar
Cryptocoryne schulzei de Wit - Johor
Cryptocoryne scurrilis de Wit - Sumatra
Cryptocoryne sivadasanii Bogner - southern India
Cryptocoryne spiralis (Retz.) Fisch. ex Wydler - Bangladesh, India
Cryptocoryne striolata Engl. - Borneo
Cryptocoryne thwaitesii Schott - Sri Lanka
Cryptocoryne timahensis Bastm. - Singapore   (C. cordata × C. nurii)
Cryptocoryne uenoi Yuji Sasaki - Sarawak
Cryptocoryne undulata Wendt - Sri Lanka
Cryptocoryne usteriana Engl.  - Philippines
Cryptocoryne versteegii Engl. - New Guinea
Cryptocoryne vietnamensis I.Hertel & H.Mühlberg - Vietnam
Cryptocoryne villosa N.Jacobsen - Sumatra
Cryptocoryne walkeri Schott - Sri Lanka
Cryptocoryne wendtii de Wit - Sri Lanka
Cryptocoryne × willisii Reitz - Sri Lanka   (C. parva × C. walkeri)
Cryptocoryne yujii Bastm. - Sarawak
Cryptocoryne zaidiana Ipor & Tawan - Sarawak
Cryptocoryne zukalii Rataj - Peninsular Malaysia
Passage 9:
Mimosa tenuiflora
Mimosa tenuiflora, syn. Mimosa hostilis, also known as jurema preta, calumbi (Brazil), tepezcohuite (México), carbonal, cabrera, jurema, black jurema, and binho de jurema, is a perennial tree or shrub native to the northeastern region of Brazil (Paraíba, Rio Grande do Norte, Ceará, Pernambuco, Bahia) and found as far north as southern Mexico (Oaxaca and coast of Chiapas), and the following countries: El Salvador, Honduras, Panama, Colombia and Venezuela.  It is most often found in lower altitudes, but it can be found as high as 1,000 m (3,300 ft).

Description
The fern-like branches have leaves that are Mimosa like, finely pinnate, growing to 5 cm (2.0 in) long.  Each compound leaf contains 15–33 pairs of bright green leaflets 5–6 mm (0.20–0.24 in) long.  The tree itself grows up to 8 m (26 ft) tall and it can reach 4–5 m (13–16 ft) tall in less than 5 years.  The white, fragrant flowers occur in loosely cylindrical spikes 4–8 cm (1.6–3.1 in) long. In the Northern Hemisphere it blossoms and produces fruit from November to June or July.  In the Southern Hemisphere it blooms primarily from September to January.  The fruit is brittle and averages 2.5–5 cm (0.98–1.97 in) long.  Each pod contains 4–6 seeds that are oval, flat, light brown and 3–4 mm (0.12–0.16 in) in diameter.  There are about 145 seeds/1 g (0.035 oz).  In the Southern Hemisphere, the fruit ripens from February to April.

The tree's bark is dark brown to gray.  It splits lengthwise and the inside is reddish brown.
The tree's wood is dark reddish brown with a yellow center.  It is very dense, durable and strong, having a density of about 1.11 g/cm3.Mimosa tenuiflora does very well after a forest fire, or other major ecological disturbance.  It is a prolific pioneer plant.  It drops its leaves on the ground, continuously forming a thin layer of mulch and eventually humus.  Along with its ability to fix nitrogen, the tree conditions the soil, making it ready for other plant species to come along.

Medicinal uses
A tea made of the leaves and stem has been used to treat tooth pain.  For cases of cough and bronchitis, a water extract (decoction) of Mimosa tenuiflora is drunk.  A handful of bark in one liter of water is used by itself or in a syrup.  The solution is drunk until the symptoms subside.One preliminary clinical study found Mimosa tenuiflora to be effective in treating venous leg ulcerations.Aqueous extracts of Mimosa are widely used for wound healing and burns in Middle and South America. Consequently, the products of the plant (generally grouped under the term "Tepezcohuite") have become a popular and easily produced cosmetic ingredient in commercial skincare products, used and marketed by celebrities including Kylie Jenner and Salma Hayek.

Other uses
The tree is an acceptable source of forage or fodder for animals, providing vital protein and other nutrients.  It does well in the dry season and in drought, while providing life saving food for local livestock and animals.  Cows, goats and sheep eat the pods and leaves.  There seems to be evidence that Mimosa tenuiflora forage or fodder cause development defects to pregnant ruminants in Brazil.The tree is an important source of forage for bees, especially during the dry season and in the beginning of the wet season.
Like most plants in the family Fabaceae, Mimosa tenuiflora fertilizes the soil via nitrogen fixing bacteria.  The tree is useful in fighting soil erosion and for reforestation.

Mimosa tenuiflora is a very good source of fuel wood and works very well for making posts, most likely because of its high tannin content (16%), which protects it from rot.  Due to its high tannin content, the bark of the tree is widely used as a natural dye and in leather production.  It is used to make bridges, buildings, fences, furniture and wheels.  It is an excellent source of charcoal and at least one study has been done to see why this is the case.The healing properties of the tree make it useful in treating domestic animals.  A solution of the leaves or bark can also be used for washing animals in the prevention of parasites.  Because the tree keeps most of its leaves during the dry season, it is an important source of shade for animals and plants during that time.

Chemistry
The bark is known to be rich in tannins, saponins, alkaloids, lipids, phytosterols, glucosides, xylose, rhamnose, arabinose, lupeol, methoxychalcones, and kukulkanins.  Additionally, Mimosa hostilis contains labdane diterpenoids.

Entheogenic uses
Mimosa tenuiflora is an entheogen used by the Jurema Cult (O Culto da Jurema) in northeastern Brazil. Dried Mexican Mimosa tenuiflora root bark has been recently shown to have a dimethyltryptamine (DMT) content of about 1-1.7%.  The stem bark has about 0.03% DMT.The parts of the tree are traditionally used in northeastern Brazil in a psychoactive decoction also called Jurema or Yurema. Analogously, the traditional Western Amazonian sacrament Ayahuasca is brewed from indigenous ayahuasca vines.
However, to date no β-carbolines such as harmala alkaloids have been detected in Mimosa tenuiflora decoctions, yet the Jurema is used in combination with several plants.This presents challenges to the pharmacological understanding of how DMT from the plant is rendered orally active as an entheogen, because the psychoactivity of ingested DMT requires the presence of a monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI), such as a β-carboline. If an MAOI is neither present in the plant nor added to the mixture, the enzyme monoamine oxidase (MAO) will metabolize DMT in the human gut, preventing the active molecule from entering the blood and brain.
The plant is also used in clandestine manufacture of crystalline DMT. In this form, it is psychoactive by itself when vaporized and inhaled.
The isolation of the chemical compound yuremamine from Mimosa tenuiflora as reported in 2005 represents a new class of phytoindoles, which may explain an apparent oral activity of DMT in Jurema.

Cultivation
For outside planting, USDA Zone 9 or higher is recommended.In nature, Mimosa tenuiflora "[...] fruits and seeds are disseminated by the wind in a radius of 5–8 m (16–26 ft) from the mother plant; rain carries them from slopes to lower plains and human activities contribute to their dissemination."For cultivation, the seed pods are collected once they start to spontaneously open on the tree.  The collected pods are laid out in the sun so that the pods open up and release their seeds.  The seeds can then be planted in sandy soil with sun exposure.
Scarification of the seed via mechanical means or by using sulfuric acid greatly increases the germination rate of the seeds over non-treatment.  The seeds can be sown directly into holes in the ground or planted in prepared areas.
The seeds can germinate in temperatures ranging from 10 to 30 °C, but the highest germination rate occurs at around 25 °C (about 96%), even after four years of storage.  Germination takes about 2–4 weeks.
It is also possible to propagate Mimosa tenuiflora via cuttings.Trimming adult Mimosa tenuiflorae during the rainy season is not recommended as it can kill them.

Legal status
United Nations
See also
Dimethyltryptamine
Psychedelic plants
Passage 10:
Mimosa texana
Mimosa texana is a shrub in the family Fabaceae. It is commonly known as the Texas mimosa, the Texas catclaw or the Wherry mimosa and is endemic to upland regions of Mexico and Texas. This species used to be classified as Mimosa biuncifera but it was found that phenotypic variations occurred across its range and a new taxonomy was proposed by Rupert C. Barneby in 1986, splitting the species into Mimosa aculeaticarpa var. biuncifera and Mimosa texana.

Distribution
Texas mimosa is found on alkaline soils in Mexico and Zapata and Starr counties in the state of Texas. It is uncommon and grows on caliche and gravelly hillsides.

Description
This species is a straggly, much branched, deciduous shrub of up to two metres tall. It has slender, zigzag, dark coloured twigs clad in backward pointing prickles. The alternate bi-pinnate leaves have medium-sized leaflets. The globular flowers are creamy-white and cover the bush in the spring. They are intensely fragrant and attract numerous insects. The seed pods are brick red and flattened, with prickly edges.