Passage 1:
2014 6 Hours of Silverstone
The 2014 6 Hours of Silverstone was an endurance sports car racing event held at the Silverstone Circuit near Silverstone, England on 17–20 April 2014.  The event served as the opening round of the 2014 World Endurance Championship, and overall race winners were awarded the annual Tourist Trophy by the Royal Automobile Club.  Toyota became the first Japanese manufacturer to win Silverstone's endurance race, with Anthony Davidson, Sébastien Buemi, and Nicolas Lapierre leading the team's second TS040 Hybrid to a 1–2 finish.  The race, which had run under mixed weather conditions, was stopped in the final half-hour of competition due to heavy rains and not restarted.Porsche, making their return to the prototype categories with the debuting 919 Hybrid, completed the overall race podium with third place. Accidents ended the race of both Audi R18 e-tron quattro cars after the World Champions had started strongly.  Rebellion Racing's Nicolas Prost, Nick Heidfeld, and Mathias Beche were the only team to reach the finish in the LMP1-L category, while G-Drive Racing's Morgan-Nissan won the LMP2 class.  Lock-out 1–2 victories were also earned by Porsche in LMGTE Pro and British marque Aston Martin in LMGTE Am.

Qualifying results
Pole position winners in each class are marked in bold.

Race
Race result
Class winners in bold.

See also
2014 4 Hours of Silverstone
Passage 2:
2013 6 Hours of São Paulo
The 2013 6 Hours of São Paulo was an endurance auto race held at the Autódromo José Carlos Pace, São Paulo, Brazil on 30 August – 1 September 2013.  The race was the fourth round of the 2013 FIA World Endurance Championship and the second consecutive running of the 6 Hours of São Paulo.  Audi continued their streak of four overall victories following an accident for the sole Toyota in LMP1, with André Lotterer, Marcel Fässler, and Benoît Tréluyer leading the Joest Racing duo to the checkered flag.  G-Drive Racing earned their first victory in the LMP2 category ahead of OAK Racing, while AF Corse Ferrari led home Aston Martin Racing in the LMGTE Pro class by a gap of less than two seconds.  Aston Martin however prevailed in LMGTE Am, ahead of the 8 Star Ferrari.

Qualifying result
Pole position winners in each class are marked in bold.
^1  The No. 61 AF Corse Ferrari was deemed to be below the minimum ride height in post-qualifying scrutineering.  The car was penalized to the back of the starting grid.
^2  The No. 57 Krohn Ferrari and No. 76 IMSA Porsche both had drivers who failed to meet the minimum lap time requirements.  Both cars were penalized to the back of the starting grid.
^3  Although the No. 25 Delta-ADR Oreca-Nissan failed to set a qualifying time, the car was allowed to start from the back of the LMP2 field on the grid for safety reasons.

Race result
Class winners in bold.  Cars failing to complete 70% of winner's distance marked as Not Classified (NC).
Passage 3:
6 Hours of Silverstone
The 4 Hours of Silverstone (formerly the 1000 km of Silverstone and 6 Hours of Silverstone) is an endurance sports car race held at Silverstone Circuit near the Northamptonshire villages of Silverstone and Whittlebury.  First run in 1976 as part of the World Sportscar Championship, the race was a part of the FIA World Endurance Championship between 2013 and 2019, but the 2020 race was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the race didn’t return for 2021. The RAC Tourist Trophy has been awarded to the winners of the event.

History
In 1975, a round of the World Championship of Makes was not held in Britain for one of the first times since 1966. The 1000 km Brands Hatch which had been run almost consecutively during that period went under hiatus while track upgrades were carried out. Following upgrades of its own in 1975, plans were made for sportscars to return to Britain by using Silverstone instead of Brands Hatch. The event was a six-hour endurance, part of the Group 5 World Championship.
The first running consisted of a small field as some season competitors chose not to compete. British drivers John Fitzpatrick and Tom Walkinshaw managed to upset the factory teams by scoring the inaugural victory in a BMW. The following year, competition grew as the factory Porsche team, under the guise of Martini Racing, earned their first of two consecutive victories for drivers Jochen Mass and Jacky Ickx. The Porsche factory team was not able to continue their streak into 1979 when their lead car crashed, leaving the privateer Gelo Racing Porsche to a dominant win.
1980 saw the first victory by a sports-prototype. Alain de Cadenet managed to win the home event as a driver, team owner, as well as a constructor when he and Desiré Wilson won by 18 seconds in a car of his own design. A Group 5 car took its final victory in 1981 with the all-German Velga Racing Team before the class was phased out.
1982 was the first year of the Group C category in the World Championship, although the race that year was actually won by an older Group 6 Lancia. The first Group C victory came in 1983 as Porsche returned to their factory dominance of the event, going on to win the 1984 and 1985 events as well. Jacky Ickx and Jochen Mass still hold record of most wins, having won the race four times in 1977, 1978, 1984 and 1985. In 1986 British success returned as the Jaguar factory team was able to upset Porsche for the first time since the company had returned to racing. Jaguar then began to dominate in a fashion similar to Porsche, as they too won the next two years.  American Eddie Cheever co-drove in each of the three victories.
No race was held in 1989 as Donington temporarily replaced Silverstone on the schedule, but sportscars returned in 1990 for a shorter 480 km event. Jaguar returned to their winning ways straight away before going on to earn a fifth straight victory in a 430 km event in 1991. Only after Jaguar officially retired from the World Championship was another manufacturer able to once again earn victory at Silverstone, this time being Peugeot. A lack of entrants however lead to the cancellation of the World Championship, temporarily ending endurance racing at the circuit. The race did make a one-year comeback in 2000 as part of the American Le Mans Series. The race served as a precursor to the European Le Mans Series that followed in 2001.
In 2004, the new Le Mans Endurance Series was created to resurrect several 1000 km endurance races in a modern era. Among these was Silverstone, running at its original distance.  Once again, British success started off the return of the event as Allan McNish and the British Audi team won the event. Audi and McNish won again the following year, this time under the control of the French Oreca team, although the race was heavily hampered by rain.  Silverstone took a brief hiatus in 2006 as Donington replaced the event once again, only to return once again in 2007. Peugeot earned their second victory, this time with a diesel-powered Le Mans prototype. The 2010 edition was the inaugural race of the Le Mans Intercontinental Cup, as well as the first time the race used the new 5.901 km (3.667 mi) "Arena" configuration. The race continued in 2012 as a part of the FIA World Endurance Championship.

Winners
† - Race went under a 6-hour time limit. Only 776 km of the 1000 km scheduled were covered.

External links
Le Mans Series - 2007 1000 km of Silverstone
Passage 4:
Renato Molinari
Renato Molinari (born 27 February 1946 in Nesso) is an Italian powerboat racer, and the inaugural winner of the John Player Special F1 Powerboat World Championship in 1981, and won titles again in 1983 and 1984. In addition to this success, Molinari is an 18-time World Champion (in different categories); 11-time European Champion (in different categories), 4-time winner of the Rouen 24 hours, 4-time winner of the Paris 6 hours; twice winner of the Parker Enduro and 3-time winner of the Berlin 6 hours.

Career
Molinari began his boating career in 1964, and won the Formula 1 championship in 1981, 1983 and 1984.
Passage 5:
2013 6 Hours of Bahrain
The 2013 6 Hours of Bahrain was an endurance auto race held at the Bahrain International Circuit in Sakhir, Bahrain on 30 November 2013. The race was the eighth and final showdown of the 2013 FIA World Endurance Championship season. The race was won by Sébastien Buemi, Stéphane Sarrazin and Anthony Davidson driving the No.8 Toyota TS030 Hybrid of Toyota Racing.

Qualifying
Qualifying result
Pole position winners in each class are marked in bold.

Race
Race result
Class winners in bold. Cars failing to complete 70% of winner's distance marked as Not Classified (NC).
Passage 6:
Allan McNish
Allan McNish (born 29 December 1969) is a British former racing driver, commentator, and journalist from Scotland. He is a three-time winner of the 24 Hours of Le Mans, most recently in 2013, as well as a three-time winner of the American Le Mans Series, which he last won in 2007. He won the FIA World Endurance Championship (FIA WEC) in 2013. He has also been a co-commentator and pundit for BBC Formula One coverage on TV, radio and online and was team principal of the Audi Sport ABT Schaeffler Formula E team.

Early life
McNish was born in Dumfries, Scotland and played football while at school. He was a fan of Nottingham Forest and also supported his local club Queen of the South. It was not until McNish began in karting that he found something at which he excelled.

Early career
McNish began his career in karting like fellow Dumfries and Galloway driver David Coulthard. McNish credited the start given to both of them and Dario Franchitti as being largely down to David Leslie senior and junior.McNish and Coulthard both were recognised with a McLaren/Autosport BRDC Young Driver of the Year award having moved up to car racing. In 1988 he won the Formula Vauxhall Lotus championship and in 1989 finished runner up to David Brabham in a close fought British Formula 3 Championship. During the late 1980s McNish shared a house with teammate Mika Häkkinen.Tipped as a future Formula One driver, he tested with both McLaren and Benetton, whilst also competing in F3000, then the recognised second tier of European motorsport, in 1990–1992. Whilst racing his first season in F3000, McNish suffered a crash at a race in Donington Park where a bystander was fatally injured. He went on to finish fourth overall in the championship that season. Concentrating on Formula One opportunities meant he appeared in F3000 only once during 1994, at Pau.
When a Formula One drive failed to materialise, he returned to F3000 in 1995 with Paul Stewart Racing (run by the son of Sir Jackie Stewart who went on to form Stewart Grand Prix). While he was arguably the fastest driver of the year, a series of mishaps saw him well beaten by Super Nova drivers Vincenzo Sospiri and Ricardo Rosset in the title race. McNish's career appeared to stall in early 1996 after a deal to race in Formula Nippon fell through and Mark Blundell was preferred for a drive with the PacWest CART team. He also tested for Benetton during the year.

Sports cars
Despite devoting his career to the pursuit of a Formula One chance, McNish has become one of the world's most highly rated sportscar drivers. His sportscar career began in 1996 with Porsche, at a time when their 911 GT1 model revolutionised sportscar racing. With the factory team he took this car to victory in the 1998 24 Hours of Le Mans, partnered by Laurent Aïello and Stephane Ortelli. He subsequently appeared for Toyota and Audi in the race, and after losing a likely victory in the dying stages of the 2007 event, scored a second triumph in 2008 with Tom Kristensen and Rinaldo Capello driving an Audi R10. He has also raced with great success for Audi in the American Le Mans Series, winning the title with Dindo Capello in 2006 and 2007, and taking four overall victories at the 12 Hours of Sebring (2004, 2006, 2009 and 2012). At the 2011 Le Mans McNish destroyed the car in a spectacular crash early in the race and ended the race for Audi No. 3. And again at the 2012 Le Mans, McNish made a driving error and lost a first place by crashing the Audi No. 2 car a few hours before the finish. He also codrove the No. 8 Starworks Motorsport Riley-Ford to a second-place finish at the 2012 24 Hours of Daytona.
In the 2000 American Le Mans Series season McNish set a track record for the full circuit configuration at Sears Point International Raceway.

Formula One
McNish finally found an opening into Formula One in 2001, when the newly formed Toyota F1 team required a development driver. Given his link with Toyota through sportscars he was an obvious choice for this role, and after impressing in testing he was hired to race for the season. He did not score any points during the season's 17 races, and he and teammate Mika Salo were replaced with a new line-up of Olivier Panis and Cristiano da Matta for 2003. Salo had scored points for the team on their debut in Melbourne and McNish had very nearly done the same in the Malaysian Grand Prix, only for a pit lane mistake by the team to cost him the result. Both drivers were told of their replacement before Da Matta was announced, and ITV's Martin Brundle commented that "replacing Salo and McNish with Panis and A.N. Other" was not, in his view, a step forward.McNish had a dramatic accident at the 130R corner while practising for Toyota's home race the Japanese Grand Prix at Suzuka, but escaped serious injury. This led to the corner being reprofiled the following year.

After Formula One
In 2003 he was a test driver for Renault F1, also doing a little TV work for ITV, but the next year he returned to his successful sports car racing career, winning the 12 Hours of Sebring, combining this in 2005 with a venture into the highly competitive DTM (German Touring Car Championship), where he competed against the likes of former Formula One drivers Mika Häkkinen and Jean Alesi. He also won sportscar driver of the year awards from  Autosport and Le Mans magazines and the (Jackie) Stewart Medal Award for services to Scottish motor sport. He was made the president of the Scottish Motor Racing Club at their annual prize giving and dinner in 2007, succeeding Stewart.

In 2006, he continued racing with the Audi factory team and was part of the driving line-up which won the 12 Hours of Sebring in the new Audi R10 TDI diesel, setting pole position and breaking the lap record. In 2008, McNish won the 24 Hours of Le Mans for Audi alongside Tom Kristensen and Rinaldo Capello. It was his first win at la Sarthe since 1998. McNish won the 2013 24 Hours of Le Mans as well with Tom Kristensen and Loïc Duval.  In 2011 McNish suffered a catastrophic crash at the Le Mans race, one which left his car virtually disintegrated.  However McNish walked away from the vehicle unharmed thanks largely due to the safety improvements that had been made in recent years.In 2013, McNish became a world champion as he won the 2013 FIA World Endurance Championship alongside Kristensen and Duval.
Since Formula One has introduced the drivers' representative on the stewards panel at all Grands Prix, McNish has featured as the drivers' representative twice in the 2011 season, in Monaco and most recently in Hungary and on both occasions he has penalised the McLaren driver Lewis Hamilton for various transgressions. He has also appeared in a Scania video test driving their new R 730 V8.
On 17 December 2013, McNish announced his retirement from Audi Sport and from racing full-time. He has not ruled out racing individual events in the future. After retiring he took on a role with Audi Sport, including liaising between the team's drivers and engineers, between the team and motorsport organisers, and driver development. He is also manager of racing driver Harry Tincknell. He also works for BBC Sport as a commentator and pundit for their Formula One coverage. McNish became team principal for Audi's Formula E team, starting for the 2017–18 season, following Audi's official take over of the Abt Sportsline run entry.
McNish is two-time winner of the Segrave Trophy (2009/2014), was awarded the BRDC Gold Star in 2014, and won the BARC Gold Medal in 2015.

Other formulae
As well as those above, McNish has also raced in the following racing series:

Karting
Formula Ford
Vauxhall Lotus
British Formula 3
North American GT
FIA GT

Personal life
He lives in Monaco with his wife Kelly and their two children. Prior to his marriage, McNish's stag party in Dumfries was attended by Dario and Marino Franchitti and included watching a Queen of the South football match.
He speaks English and French.

Racing record
Complete International Formula 3000 results
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position; races in italics indicate fastest lap.)

Complete 24 Hours of Le Mans results
Complete American Le Mans Series results
Complete 12 Hours of Sebring results
Complete Formula One results
(key)

† Driver did not finish the Grand Prix, but was classified as he completed over 90% of the race distance.

Complete DTM results
(key)

Complete Le Mans Series results
Complete FIA World Endurance Championship results
Passage 7:
2013 6 Hours of Shanghai
The 2013 6 Hours of Shanghai was an endurance auto race held at the Shanghai International Circuit in Shanghai, China on 9 November 2013.  The race was the seventh round of the 2013 FIA World Endurance Championship season.
The race was won by André Lotterer, Benoît Tréluyer and Marcel Fässler of Audi Sport Team Joest. Allan McNish, Tom Kristensen and Loïc Duval won the World Drivers' Championship at the event after finishing in third place.

Qualifying
Qualifying result
Pole position winners in each class are marked in bold.

Race
Race result
Class winners in bold. Cars failing to complete 70% of winner's distance marked as Not Classified (NC).
Passage 8:
2013 6 Hours of Fuji
The 2013 6 Hours of Fuji was intended to have been an automobile endurance race held at the Fuji Speedway, Oyama, Japan on 20 October 2013.  The race was the sixth round of the 2013 FIA World Endurance Championship season.  Heavy rains forced race officials to start the race under safety car conditions, completing eight laps before the race was temporarily stopped due to no improvement in track conditions.  Following a two-hour delay the race was restarted once more under the safety car, lapping another eight circuits before officials stopped the race again and eventually called an end to the event.  The No. 7 Toyota was declared the race winner, gaining the lead following a pit stop under caution from the Audi which started on pole position, while the majority of the field finished in the same position they started the race. Only half points were awarded towards the various championships being held under the WEC umbrella.
As a result of the race, which did not take the green flag, the FIA imposed a rule change effective 2014 where points are only scored if two laps are run under green flag conditions to prevent a repeat of what happened in Fuji.

Qualifying
Qualifying result
Pole position winners in each class are marked in bold.

Race
Race result
Class winners in bold.  Cars failing to complete 70% of winner's distance marked as Not Classified (NC).
Passage 9:
Trela nera
The Euripus Strait (Greek: Εύριπος [ˈevripos]) is a narrow channel of water separating the Greek island of Euboea in the Aegean Sea from Boeotia in mainland Greece. The strait's principal port is Chalcis on Euboea, located at the strait's narrowest point.
The strait is subject to strong tidal currents which reverse direction approximately four times a day. Tidal flows are very weak in the Eastern Mediterranean, but the strait is a remarkable exception.  Water flow peaks at about 12 kilometres per hour (7.5 mph; 6.5 kn), either northwards or southwards, and lesser vessels are often incapable of sailing against it.  When nearing flow reversal, sailing is even more precarious because of vortex formation.
The Swiss scholar François-Alphonse Forel contributed to an understanding of the enigmatic phenomenon by his study of limnology and the discovery of seiche, where layers of water of differing temperature oscillate in thickness in a confined body of water. But the problem was solved completely only by D. Eginitis, director of the Athens Observatory, who published his conclusions in 1929.

Etymology
From Ancient Greek εὔριπος (eúrīpos, "any strait or narrow sea, where the flux and reflux is violent"); from εὖ (eû, "well") + ῥιπή (rhipḗ, “swing or force with which anything is thrown”), from ῥίπτω (rhíptō, "to throw").

Bridges
There are two road bridges across the strait, both at Chalcis. One is the Euripus Bridge or Chalcis Bridge, a two-pylon, cable-suspended bridge built south of town in 1992, and commonly called the "New" or "High" bridge, with a span of about 215 m (705 ft). The strait is 160 m (525 ft) wide at this point.  The bridge is accessible via a fork on the main road at Aulis.
The "Old" or "Low" or "Sliding" Bridge lies across midtown, and can slide away to allow shipping traffic. It is located at the narrowest point of the strait, where it is only 38 m (125 ft) wide.  It accommodates two lanes of vehicular traffic.  It was originally built as a retractable bridge in 1858, replaced by a rotating one in 1896.  The existing, originally wooden bridge was built in 1962 and was extensively refurbished in 1998.

History
The Euripus was closed by a dike of coarse sediment until about 6000 years ago, when it was opened by an (unrecorded) earthquake. Herodotus mentions the strait during his description of the Battle of Artemisium (480 BC), with the account implying that it was navigable by large fleets of triremes. Diodorus Siculus reports that in 411 BC the Euboeans closed the strait by mostly rebuilding the dike, with the goal of making themselves part of Boeotia, therefore not an island subject to Athenian hegemony. Diodorus states that gaps had to be left in the dike to allow the Euripus tides to flow through; the narrowness of the remaining passage made the current much more intense. Only a single passage was left navigable, just wide enough for a single ship. There is no mention of the closure of the strait in either Thucydides' History of the Peloponnesian War or Xenophon's Hellenica. Strabo wrote that at an unspecified later date the strait was crossed by a bridge two plethra long (approximately 50 m (160 ft), which is probably an exaggeration). Some vestiges of the artificial dike probably remained, so the gap spanned by the bridge could have been narrower than the channel that existed before 411 BC. Ancient historians do not record the depth of the channel; even the passage under Strabo's bridge may have been scoured by the tides to a depth sufficient for ancient shipping.Procopius reports that during the reign of Emperor Justinian I (527 to 565 AD) there were two channels in the Euripus, the large original channel and a new narrower cleft to the east of it, so narrow that it could be crossed with a single plank of wood. This later stream was later widened to make the present shipping channel. At the time when Procopius wrote, the name of the fortress on the Euripus was probably "Euripus," which had become "Egripos" by 1204, and was adopted and slightly altered to "Nigriponte" by the Latins who occupied the place in 1205.  (The name has nothing to do with any sort of "Black Bridge," except as a Veronese or Venetian joke, or folk-etymological corruption or re-interpretation in reference to the old bridge across the channel.)

In 1395, Nicola di Martoni came to Negropont during the return from his pilgrimage to Egypt and Palestine.  He is clear that the main shipping channel in the Venetian period was on the side of the Boeotian mainland, and mentions the mills on the narrower channel, which he says were sometimes broken in the speed and turbulence of the flow there.
We have further information about the shipping channel and its single wooden bridge from various documents in the archives of the Venetian Empire. In 1408, the formation of a reef under the bridge severely affected shipping (http://www.archiviodistatovenezia.it/divenire/collezioni.htm  Senato, Deliberazioni, Misti. 48,43v) and in 1439 there was concern over the tendency of the current to erode the surroundings of the pilings that supported the bridge  (http://www.archiviodistatovenezia.it/divenire/collezioni.htm  Senato, Deliberazioni, Misti. 60,140r–42r).Evliya Çelebi, in his Travel Journal (SN VIII250a27, ff.), tells us that the narrow channel was first opened out enough for a galley to pass through at some time in the late 16th century, and was still just barely wide enough at the time of his visit in 1668 for a galley to squeeze through, even though the old shipping channel had been abandoned.
By the end of the 18th century it was well on its way to being the width of the modern channel.

See also
List of Greek place names

Notes
Passage 10:
2013 6 Hours of Silverstone
The 2013 6 Hours of Silverstone was an auto racing event held at the Silverstone Circuit, near Silverstone, England on 12–14 April 2013.  The event was the opening round of the 2013 FIA World Endurance Championship season, and served as the annual award for the Royal Automobile Club's Tourist Trophy.  Briton Allan McNish, Dane Tom Kristensen, and Frenchman Loïc Duval won the race for Audi, just over three seconds ahead of their teammates.  The British Delta-ADR team were victorious in the LMP2 category, while Aston Martin Racing secured both the LMGTE Pro and LMGTE Am classes.
The event weekend was shared with the European Le Mans Series, which ran the 3 Hours of Silverstone, and the FIA European Formula 3 Championship.

Qualifying
The 6 Hours of Silverstone was the first instance in which the WEC utilized a new qualifying procedure in which two drivers were required to set laps during the qualifying session.  The grid would then be determined by averaging the total of the two best laps set by each of the drivers.  Following the Silverstone qualifying session, several drivers felt the new format was too risky as all teams only had enough time to set four laps during the wet session.  The FIA later announced that qualifying would be extended by ten minutes for the next round at Spa to allow teams more leeway.

Qualifying result
Pole position winners in each class are marked in bold.

Race
Race result
Class winners in bold.  Cars failing to complete 70% of winner's distance marked as Not Classified (NC).