Passage 1:
William Wallace
Sir William Wallace (Scottish Gaelic: Uilleam Uallas, pronounced [ˈɯʎam ˈuəl̪ˠəs̪]; Norman French: William le Waleys; c. 1270 – 23 August 1305) was a Scottish knight who became one of the main leaders during the First War of Scottish Independence.Along with Andrew Moray, Wallace defeated an English army at the Battle of Stirling Bridge in September 1297. He was appointed Guardian of Scotland and served until his defeat at the Battle of Falkirk in July 1298. In August 1305, Wallace was captured in Robroyston, near Glasgow, and handed over to King Edward I of England, who had him hanged, drawn and quartered for high treason and crimes against English civilians.
Since his death, Wallace has obtained a legendary status far beyond his homeland. He is the protagonist of Blind Harry's 15th-century epic poem The Wallace and the subject of literary works by Jane Porter and Sir Walter Scott, and of the Academy Award-winning film Braveheart.

Background
William Wallace was a member of the lesser nobility, but little is definitely known of his family history or even his parentage. William's own seal, found on a letter sent to the Hanse city of Lübeck in 1297, gives his father's name as Alan Wallace. This Alan Wallace may be the same as the one listed in the 1296 Ragman Rolls as a crown tenant in Ayrshire, but there is no additional confirmation. Others have speculated this Alan held an Ellerslie, near Kilmarnock, Ayrshire, and if true, the estate could be a possible birthplace for William; though there is no record of Wallaces' holding the estate, in the mid 13th century. Blind Harry's late-15th-century poem offers an alternate father for William, a Sir Malcolm of Elderslie, in Renfrewshire; and has similarly given rise to a possible birthplace for William. There is no contemporary evidence linking him with either location, although both areas had connections with the wider Wallace family. Records show early members of the family as holding estates at Riccarton, Tarbolton, Auchincruive in Kyle and Stenton in East Lothian. They were vassals of James Stewart, 5th High Steward of Scotland as their lands fell within his territory. It has been claimed that Wallace's brothers Malcolm and John are known from other sources, but there is a lack of verifiable evidence for John’s relationship with William.The origins of the Wallace surname and its association with southwest Scotland are also far from certain, other than the name's being derived from the Old English wylisc (pronounced "wullish"), meaning "foreigner" or "Welshman". It is possible that all the Wallaces in the Clyde area were medieval immigrants from Wales, but as the term was also used for the Cumbric-speaking Strathclyde kingdom of the Celtic Britons, it seems equally likely that the surname refers to people who were seen as being "Welsh" due to their Cumbric language. A family tradition states Wallace was descended from the sister of Saint Patrick, which would reinforce the Welsh origin theory.

Military career
Political crisis in Scotland
When Wallace was growing up, King Alexander III ruled Scotland. His reign had seen a period of peace and economic stability. On 19 March 1286, however, Alexander died after falling from his horse. The heir to the throne was Alexander's granddaughter, Margaret, Maid of Norway. As she was still a child and in Norway, the Scottish lords set up a government of guardians. Margaret fell ill on the voyage to Scotland and died in Orkney in late September 1290. The lack of a clear heir led to a period known as the "Great Cause", with a total of thirteen contenders laying claim to the throne. The most credible claims were John Balliol and Robert Bruce, grandfather of the future king Robert the Bruce.With Scotland threatening to descend into civil war, King Edward I of England was invited in by the Scottish nobility to arbitrate. Before the process could begin, he insisted that all of the contenders recognise him as Lord Paramount of Scotland. In early November 1292, at a great feudal court held in the castle at Berwick-upon-Tweed, judgment was given in favour of John Balliol having the strongest claim in law based on being senior in genealogical primogeniture even though not in proximity of blood.Edward proceeded to take steps to progressively undermine John's authority, treating Scotland as a feudal vassal state, demanding homage be paid towards himself and military support in his war against France — even summoning King John Balliol to stand before the English court as a common plaintiff. The Scots soon tired of their deeply compromised king, and the direction of affairs was allegedly taken out of his hands by the leading men of the kingdom, who appointed a Council of Twelve—in practice, a new panel of Guardians—at Stirling in July 1295. They went on to conclude a treaty of mutual assistance with France—known in later years as the Auld Alliance.In retaliation for Scotland's treaty with France, Edward I invaded, storming Berwick-upon-Tweed and commencing the Wars of Scottish Independence. The Scots were defeated at Dunbar and the English took Dunbar Castle on 27 April 1296. Edward forced John to abdicate, which he did at Stracathro near Montrose on 10 July 1296. Here the arms of Scotland were formally torn from John's surcoat, giving him the abiding name of "Toom Tabard" (empty coat). By July, Edward had instructed his officers to receive formal homage from some 1,800 Scottish nobles (many of the rest being prisoners of war at that time).

Silent years prior to the Wars of Independence
Some historians believe Wallace must have had some earlier military experience in order to lead a successful military campaign in 1297. Campaigns like Edward I of England's wars in Wales might have provided a good opportunity for a younger son of a landholder to become a mercenary soldier. Wallace's personal seal bears the archer's insignia, so he may have fought as an archer in Edward's army.
Walter Bower states that Wallace was "a tall man with the body of a giant ... with lengthy flanks ... broad in the hips, with strong arms and legs ... with all his limbs very strong and firm". Blind Harry's Wallace reaches seven feet.

Start of the uprising
The first act definitely known to have been carried out by Wallace was his killing of William de Heselrig, the English High Sheriff of Lanark, in May 1297. He then joined with William the Hardy, Lord of Douglas, and they carried out the raid of Scone. This was one of several rebellions taking place across Scotland, including those of several Scottish nobles and Andrew Moray in the north.The uprising suffered a blow when the nobles submitted to the English at Irvine in July. Wallace and Moray were not involved, and continued their rebellions. Wallace used the Ettrick Forest as a base for raiding, and attacked Wishart's palace at Ancrum. Wallace and Moray met and joined their forces, possibly at the siege of Dundee in early September.

Battle of Stirling Bridge
On 11 September 1297, an army jointly led by Wallace and Andrew Moray won the Battle of Stirling Bridge. Although vastly outnumbered, the Scottish army routed the English army. John de Warenne, 6th Earl of Surrey's feudal army of 3,000 cavalry and 8,000 to 10,000 infantry met disaster as they crossed over to the north side of the river. The narrowness of the bridge prevented many soldiers from crossing together (possibly as few as three men abreast), so, while the English soldiers crossed, the Scots held back until half of them had passed and then killed the English as quickly as they could cross. The infantry were sent on first, followed by heavy cavalry. The Scots' schiltron formations forced the infantry back into the advancing cavalry. A pivotal charge, led by one of Wallace's captains, caused some of the English soldiers to retreat as others pushed forward, and under the overwhelming weight, the bridge collapsed and many English soldiers drowned. Thus, the Scots won a significant victory, boosting the confidence of their army. Hugh de Cressingham, Edward's treasurer in Scotland, died in the fighting and it is reputed that his body was subsequently flayed and the skin cut into small pieces as tokens of the victory. The Lanercost Chronicle records that Wallace had "a broad strip [of Cressingham's skin] ... taken from the head to the heel, to make therewith a baldrick for his sword".After the battle, Moray and Wallace assumed the title of Guardians of the Kingdom of Scotland on behalf of King John Balliol. Moray died of wounds suffered on the battlefield sometime in late 1297.Around November 1297, Wallace led a large-scale raid into northern England, through Northumberland and Cumberland.In a ceremony, at the 'Kirk o' the Forest' (Selkirk), towards the end of the year, Wallace was knighted. This would have been carried out by one of three Scottish earls—Carrick, Strathearn or Lennox.

Battle of Falkirk
In April 1298, Edward ordered a second invasion of Scotland. Two days prior to the battle 25,781 foot soldiers were paid. More than half of them would have been Welsh. There are no clear cut sources for the presence of cavalry, but it is safe to assume that Edward had roughly 1,500 horse under his command. They plundered Lothian and regained some castles, but failed to bring William Wallace to combat; the Scots shadowed the English army, intending to avoid battle until shortages of supplies and money forced Edward to withdraw, at which point the Scots would harass his retreat. The English quartermasters' failure to prepare for the expedition left morale and food supplies low, and a resulting riot within Edward's own army had to be put down by his cavalry. In July, while planning a return to Edinburgh for supplies, Edward received intelligence that the Scots were encamped nearby at Falkirk, and he moved quickly to engage them in the pitched battle he had long hoped for.Wallace arranged his spearmen in four schiltrons—circular, defensive hedgehog formations, probably surrounded by wooden stakes connected with ropes, to keep the infantry in formation. The English, however, employed Welsh longbowmen, who swung tactical superiority in their favour. The English proceeded to attack with cavalry and put the Scottish archers to flight. The Scottish cavalry withdrew as well, due to its inferiority to the English heavy horses. Edward's men began to attack the schiltrons, which were still able to inflict heavy casualties on the English cavalry. It remains unclear whether the infantry shooting bolts, arrows and stones at the spearmen proved the deciding factor, although it is very likely that it was the arrows of Edward's bowmen. Gaps in the schiltrons soon appeared, and the English exploited these to crush the remaining resistance. The Scots lost many men, including John de Graham. Wallace escaped, though his military reputation suffered badly.By September 1298, Wallace resigned as Guardian of Scotland in favour of Robert the Bruce, Earl of Carrick and future king, and John Comyn, King John Balliol's nephew.Details of Wallace's activities after this are vague, but there is some evidence that he left on a mission to the court of King Philip IV of France to plead the case for assistance in the Scottish struggle for independence. There is a surviving letter from the French king dated 7 November 1300 to his envoys in Rome demanding that they should help Sir William. It also suggests that Wallace intended to travel to Rome, although it is not known if he did. There is also a report from an English spy at a meeting of Scottish leaders, where they said Wallace was in France.By 1304 Wallace was back in Scotland, and involved in skirmishes at Happrew and Earnside.

Capture and execution
Wallace evaded capture by the English until 5 August 1305, when John de Menteith, a Scottish knight loyal to Edward, turned Wallace over to English soldiers at Robroyston, near Glasgow, a site commemorated by a small monument in the form of a Celtic cross. Letters of safe conduct from Haakon V of Norway, Philip IV of France and John Balliol, along with other documents, were found in Wallace's possession and delivered to Edward by John de Segrave.Wallace was transported to London, lodged in the house of William de Leyrer, then taken to Westminster Hall, where he was tried for treason and for atrocities against civilians in war, "sparing neither age nor sex, monk nor nun." He was crowned with a garland of oak to suggest he was the king of outlaws. He responded to the treason charge, "I could not be a traitor to Edward, for I was never his subject."

Following the trial, on 23 August 1305, Wallace was taken from the hall to the Tower of London, then stripped naked and dragged through the city at the heels of a horse to the Elms at Smithfield. He was hanged, drawn and quartered—strangled by hanging, but released while he was still alive, emasculated, eviscerated (with his bowels burned before him), beheaded, then cut into four parts. Wallace's head was dipped in tar and placed on a spike atop London Bridge. His preserved head was later joined by the heads of his brother John and his compatriots Simon Fraser and John of Strathbogie. Wallace's limbs were displayed, separately, in Newcastle, Berwick, Stirling and Perth. A plaque,  unveiled 8 April 1956, stands in a wall of St. Bartholomew's Hospital near the site of Wallace's execution at Smithfield. It includes in Latin the words "Dico tibi verum libertas optima rerum nunquam servili sub nexu vivito fili" (I tell you the truth. Freedom is what is best. Son, never live your life like a slave.), and in Gaelic "Bas Agus Buaidh" (Death and Victory), an old Scottish battle cry.In 1869, the Wallace Monument was erected, close to the site of his victory at Stirling Bridge. The Wallace Sword, which supposedly belonged to Wallace, although some parts were made at least 160 years later, was held for many years in Dumbarton Castle and is now in the Wallace Monument.

In popular culture
Film
A popular depiction of Wallace's life is presented in the film Braveheart (1995), directed by and starring Mel Gibson as Wallace, written by Randall Wallace, and filmed in Scotland and Ireland. The film was criticised for many historical inaccuracies.
In the film Outlaw King (2018), Robert the Bruce (Chris Pine) is prompted to plan a revolt against the English after observing rioting induced by the public display of the quartered body of Wallace.

Literature
Blind Harry's 15th-century poem has been a major influence on the legend of Wallace, including details like a wife named Marion Braidfute, and claiming that Wallace killed the Sheriff of Lanark in revenge for the killing of his wife. However much of this poem is unsubstantiated, at variance with contemporary sources, or disputed by historians.
In 1793 Robert Burns wrote the lyrics to Scots Wha Hae wi Wallace bled.
Jane Porter penned a romantic version of the Wallace legend in the historical novel The Scottish Chiefs (1810).

In her prize-winning poem of 1819, Wallace's Invocation to Bruce, Felicia Hemans imagines Wallace urging Bruce to continue the struggle for freedom after defeat at the Battle of Falkirk.
In 1828, Walter Scott wrote of "The Story of Sir William Wallace" in his Tales of a Grandfather (first series).
G. A. Henty wrote a novel about this time period titled In Freedom's Cause: A Story of Wallace and Bruce (1885). Henty, a producer of and writer for the Boy's Own Paper story paper, portrays the life of William Wallace, Robert the Bruce, The Black Douglas and others, while dovetailing the events of his novel with historical fiction.
Nigel Tranter wrote a historical novel titled The Wallace (1975), "admirably free of anything to do with Braveheart".
The Temple and the Stone (1998), a novel by Katherine Kurtz and Deborah Turner Harris, includes a storyline creating a fictional connection between Wallace and Templar Knights.

Gaming
Wallace is the subject and protagonist of the tutorial campaign in realtime strategy game Age of Empires II.

Beer
A number of beers are named for Wallace. A brewery in Bridge of Allan, Scotland, makes a Scottish ale named "William Wallace", and Scottish Maclays Brewery had a beer called "Wallace".

See also
Auchenbathie Tower – Wallace's Knowe
Clan Wallace
Wallace's Heel Well – an imprint of Wallace's heel in stone
Wallace's Well – Robroyston, Glasgow
Passage 2:
William Wallace (disambiguation)
William Wallace (died 1305) was a Scottish knight, landowner, and leader during the Wars of Scottish Independence.
William Wallace may also refer to:

Europeans
Willie Wallace (born 1940), Scottish footballer
William Wallace (footballer, born 1893) (1893–1917), English footballer
William Wallace of Failford (d. 1616) Scottish courtier
William Wallace (mason) (died 1631), Scottish master mason and architect
William Vincent Wallace (1812–1865), Irish composer
William Wallace (philosopher) (1844–1897), Scottish philosopher
William Wallace (Scottish composer) (1860–1940), Scottish classical composer
William Wallace (Jesuit) (1863–1922), Irish Jesuit priest and Indologist
William Wallace, Baron Wallace of Saltaire (born 1941), British academic, writer and politician
William Wallace, real name of Ali Bongo (1929–2009), British comedy magician
Staker Wallace (1733–1798), United Irishman, sometimes referred to as William
William Herbert Wallace (1878–1933), English convicted 'murderer', later found to be innocent on appeal
William Kelly Wallace (1883–1969), Irish railway engineer
William Middleton Wallace (1892–1915), Scotland rugby player
William Wallace (mathematician) (1768–1843), Scottish mathematician
William Wallace (chemist) (1832–1888), Scottish chemist and city analyst for Glasgow
Sir William Wallace (marine engineer) (1881–1963), inventor of naval technology and Scottish businessman

Americans
William Wallace Lincoln (1850–1862), son of Abraham Lincoln
William A. A. Wallace (1817–1899), Texas Ranger captain with the nickname "Bigfoot"
William A. Wallace (organizational theorist) (born 1935), Professor at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
William A. Wallace (1827–1896), U.S. Senator from Pennsylvania
William C. Wallace (1856–1901), U.S. Representative from New York.
William E. Wallace (1917–2004), known as Ed Wallace to his friends and associates, physical chemist
William H. Wallace (1811–1879), first territorial governor and Congressional delegate from Idaho Territory
William Henry Wallace (1827–1901), Confederate general and South Carolina state legislator
W. H. L. Wallace (1821–1862), Union general in the American Civil War
William J. Wallace (Indianapolis mayor)
William A. Wallace (Illinois politician), Illinois state representative
William J. Wallace (USMC) (1895–1977), American Marine Corps aviation officer
William James Wallace (1837–1917), lawyer and federal judge in the United States
William M. Wallace (1911–2000), American historian
William Miller Wallace (1844–1924), U.S. Army general
William O. Wallace (1906–1968), Hollywood set decorator
William Robert Wallace (1886–1960), American judge
William Ross Wallace (1819–1881), American poet
William S. Wallace (born 1946), General in the United States Army
William T. Wallace (1828–1909), Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of California and an Attorney General of California
William A. Wallace, historian, philosopher, and River Forest Thomist
Bill Wallace (American football) (1912–1993), American football player
Bill Wallace (martial artist) (born 1945), kickboxer

Canadians
William Wallace (Canadian politician) (1820–1887), Scottish-born merchant and politician in Ontario
William Tracy Wallace (1880–1947), Canadian-born artist in England
William Stewart Wallace (1884–1970), historian, librarian, and editor
William Wallace (rower) (1901–1967), Olympic rower
Bill Wallace (musician) (born 1949), musician

New Zealanders
Billy Wallace (1878–1972), New Zealand rugby union player
William Wallace (born 1971), actor, appeared in The Cult and Step Dave

South Americans
William Wallace (Brazilian footballer) (born 2002), Brazilian footballer

See also

Sir William Wallace Hotel, a historic pub in the suburb of Balmain, New South Wales, Australia
William Wallis (disambiguation)
Bill Wallace (disambiguation)
Passage 3:
William Keith of Galston
Sir William Keith of Galston (died 1337) was a Scottish Knight who fought in the Wars of Scottish Independence. He brought the bones and heart of James Douglas, as well as King Robert I of Scotland's heart, back to Scotland after Douglas was killed on crusade in Spain.

Life
Keith was the son of Robert de Keith, and grandson of John de Keith King's Marischal.
Keith fought alongside Thomas Randolph, Earl of Moray, and James Douglas, Lord of Douglas, during the street fighting during the capture of the town of Berwick from the English in 1318, which led to the surrender of Berwick Castle.Upon the death of Robert I of Scotland in 1329, he accompanied Sir James Douglas with a retinue of Scottish nobles on crusade. The party stopped first at Sluys, Flanders, where confirmation was received that Alfonso XI of Castile was preparing a crusading campaign against the Muslims of the kingdom of Granada. The Scots sailed on to Seville, Spain to meet Alfonso XI and pledge their support. He was one of the few survivors of Douglas's party of knights and men-at-arms who survived the siege and battle of Teba, not being able to take part in the skirmish, after suffering a broken arm. He was responsible for returning the King's heart and Douglas' bones and heart to Scotland, where the King's heart was buried at Melrose Abbey, and Douglas's remains solemnly interred in the kirk of St Bride in Douglas.
He was in command at Berwick again in 1333 when the disastrous English victory at Halidon Hill took place. In 1334, he captured the English nobleman Richard Talbot, an ally of Edward Balliol, as he was attempting to pass into England from the north.In 1335 Keith was an ambassador to England, and in 1337 he was fighting at the Siege of Stirling Castle, where he was killed.

Issue
William Keith had a daughter:

Jonetta Keith, married 1st David Hamilton of Cadzow; married 2nd Alexander Stewart of Darnley.
Passage 4:
Lake Wallace
Lake Wallace is a freshwater lake located in Edenhope in the Wimmera region of Victoria, Australia. The lake is named after William Wallace.In 1866, Australian cricketer Tom Wills trained a team of Aborigines on the lake's banks. The team played throughout Victoria and New South Wales, and several members formed the Aboriginal team which toured England in 1868.
Passage 5:
David de Inchmartin
Sir David de Inchmartin (died 4 August 1306) was a Scottish knight who took part in the War of Scottish Independence, as a supporter of Robert de Brus. He was captured and later executed by the English in 1306

Life
David was the son of John de Inchmartin. He held lands in Inchmartine (now Inchture), in Perth and Kinross. He was with Robert the Bruce at the Battle of Methven. During the battle on 19 June 1306, David was captured by English forces under Aymer de Valence, Earl of Pembroke. A number of Bruce's closest supporters were also captured. The Earl of Pembroke refused to summarily execute the prisoners as ordered by Edward I of England. David was executed by hanging on 4 August at Newcastle-upon-Tyne.

Citations
Passage 6:
John de Seton
Sir John de Seton (d 4 August 1306) was a knight who took part in the War of Scottish Independence, as a supporter of Robert de Brus. He held lands in England and Scotland.
Seton was a son of Sir John de Seton of Skelton, Cumberland and Erminia Lascelles. His brothers were Christopher and Humphrey de Seton. This branch of the Seton family had long served the Bruces in Yorkshire, Cumberland and Scotland.
John performed fealty to King Edward I of England at Berwick on 28 August 1296. Seton was present on 10 February 1306 when Sir John Comyn, Lord of Badenoch was stabbed by Robert de Brus in Greyfriars Church, Dumfries. A letter of excommunication was issued naming the Robert de Brus, Earl of Carrick and three other knights, Sir Alexander Lindsay, Sir Christopher Seton and his brother, John as John Comyn's murderers. 
He was captured by English forces after the fall of Tibbers Castle in 1306. John was hanged and drawn at Newcastle-upon-Tyne on 4 August 1306. He was executed on the basis that he was a witness to the murder of John Comyn, Lord of Badenoch by Robert de Brus, Earl of Carrick at Dumfries and holding Tibbers Castle against Edward I. His lands in Cumnock, Ayrshire were given to Roger, son of Finlay, in a charter from Robert de Brus, where it mentions a brother and a son.

Citations
Passage 7:
William Oliphant (died after 1313)
Sir William Oliphant (died aft. 1313), was a Scottish knight and Governor of Stirling Castle during the Wars of Scottish Independence. He switched loyalties to the English and died in a Scottish prison.

Life
Sir William Oliphant fought at the Battle of Dunbar in 1296, where the Scots, under their king John Balliol, were defeated by the invading English. Following the battle he was captured and taken to Devizes Castle in England where he was imprisoned. He was freed on 8 September 1297 and with his fellow prisoner John of Strathbogie, Earl of Atholl returned to Scotland to serve in King Edward I's army. Breaking his pledge to Edward I, he next appears as the governor of Stirling Castle and when attacked by King Edward's army he refused to surrender without permission of the Guardian of Scotland, John de Soules who was in France at the time. His small garrison held out against the full might of Edward's army until 20 July 1304 when they were forced to surrender. While Edward agreed to favorable terms in writing, immediately after the surrender he broke the terms and imprisoned Oliphant in the Tower of London. In this same year all of Scotland with the exception of William Wallace swore fealty to Edward I.In 1308, he was released on mainprise on 24 May 1308 and shortly afterwards returned to Scotland where he served king Edward II of England. In 1309 he was at Stirling castle. By 1312 Sir William was in command of the key English outpost, the fortified town of Perth. A six-week siege by Robert the Bruce had little effect so the Scots withdrew in open sight of the English garrison. Little more than a week later after nightfall, the Scots crossed the Lade, Perth's moat at the time, and climbed the wall. They took the town with little bloodshed. However many of the higher ranking Scots and English were executed while most of the English were allowed to go free. Sir William However, John Barbour said that King Robert "commanded on great pains" that only those who could not be captured were to be killed. Since Oliphant was not executed but was sent in chains to the western Isles, where he apparently died a prisoner there is some reason to think Barbour was correct. There is no further mention of him in any records.

Notes
Passage 8:
Bernard de Monte Alto
Sir Bernard de Monte Alto (de Mowat) was a Scottish knight who took part in the War of Scottish Independence, as a supporter of Robert de Brus.
Bernard was the son of Roger de Monte Alto, Sheriff of Cromarty and the younger brother of William de Monte Alto. He was with Robert the Bruce at the Battle of Methven on 19 June 1306 and was captured by English forces under Aymer de Valence, Earl of Pembroke. He was drawn and hanged at Newcastle-upon-Tyne on 4 August 1306. Bernard was executed for bearing arms against King Edward I of England on the side of Robert de Brus, fighting at the Battle of Methven, and killing Roger de Tany, the king's valet, in Selkirk Forest.

Notes
Passage 9:
Reginald Crawford (died 1307)
Sir Reginald Crawford (died 17 February 1307) was a Scottish knight who took part in the Wars of Scottish Independence.
In 1296 he was appointed as Sheriff of Ayr by the English administration.  In June 1297 he was one of several Scots nobles who did a deal where they were released by the English to fight against Andrew Moray.  This suggests that he may have taken  part in the revolt in early 1297 which ended in the capitulation at Irvine. 
He became a supporter of Robert the Bruce and was captured during the Battle of Loch Ryan in February 1307. He was executed by hanging in Carlisle, England.He may have been related to the Ronald Crawford who was hanged at the Barns of Ayr, but this issue is surrounded by uncertainty and later legend.
Passage 10:
David, Lord of Brechin
Sir David de Brechin (died 1320) was a Scottish knight who fought on both sides during the Wars of Scottish Independence.

Life
He was the son of Sir William de Brechin by Elena Comyn, daughter of Alexander Comyn, Earl of Buchan and Elizabeth de Quincy. Sir William was the son of Henry, an illegitimate son of David of Scotland, Earl of Huntingdon. Brechin is first attested to as a ward of a Sir John de Callendar in 1292.Brechin fought in the Earl of Surrey's army at the Battle of Dunbar, and was granted lands previously owned by Alan Durward.He name appears twice on the 1296 Ragman Rolls for Forfarshire.In the train of Robert the Bruce, he was present at Peebles when the Bruce, John Comyn, and William Lamberton were sworn in as Guardians of Scotland. Brechin returned to Galloway with Bruce.By 1301, Sir David was still active in southwestern Scotland. On 8 September Brechin was in a force led by Sir John de Soulis and Sir Ingram de Umfraville, that attacked Lochmaben Castle, and was wounded in the fight.Brechin returned to English service when he did homage to Edward I of England at the Siege of Stirling Castle.Continuing in English service, Brechin was present at the Battle of Inverurie, and according to John Barbour, he retired after the battle to Brechin Castle where he was besieged by David Earl of Atholl. However this is contested by the historian and genealogist Sir James Balfour Paul. According to all records, Strathbogie was still in the service of the English, so the capture of Brechin Castle must have been accomplished by another of King Robert's following.On 6 April 1320, Brechin appended his seal to the Declaration of Arbroath.
At a parliament at Scone (later known as the Black Parliament) in August that year, Brechin was found complicit along with William de Soules, the Countess of Strathearn and others in a conspiracy to depose the king.  For this offence Brechin was executed.Although there is no reason to doubt his guilt, his execution surprised many people, as he was seen as a "flower of chivalry", having acquitted himself well in battle against the Saracens during the crusades.

Marriages and issue
Brechin appears to have married Margaret de Bonkyll, widow of Sir John Stewart of Bonkyll, by 1304 when she is recorded as his wife. and had issue.

Margaret de Brechin, married in 1315 to Sir David de BarclayDavid de Brechin appears to have married secondly a Margaret Ramsay.