'用户指南 * User Guide 02 CN 11 EN * 包装内含 使用前注意事项 快速引导 产品部件详情说明 操作说明 02 02 03 06 08 01 
•本产品支持在系统设置中进行瞳距调节 , 调节时请务必注意，最小瞳距可能会碰触鼻梁。当您佩戴头盔后，您 “显示”中进行手动调节，请注意设置使用不合适的瞳距，可能会引起视觉重影或者眼睛疲劳。 可在“设置” ► •本产品“护眼模式”经德国 TÜV Rheinland 低蓝光认证，通过软件算法降低三色通道中的蓝光量，来达到保护 “护眼” “色彩调节” 眼睛的作用，该模式下画面颜色偏黄，您可根据个人喜好在“设置” 中激活或关闭此功能。 ““显示” ► ► ► 包装内含： VR 头盔 / 手柄 × 2 / 1.5V AA 碱性干电池 × 4/ 眼镜支架 / 遮光鼻托 / 手柄挂绳 × 2 / USB-C 电源适配器 / USB-Cto C 2.0 数据线 / 快速指南 / 用户指南 / 安全与质保指南使用前注意事项 •本产品在开阔的室內环境使用体验最佳，建议至少预留 2×2 米 的空间。使用前请确认身体没有不适且周围环 境安全，特别是佩戴头盔在室内行走移动时，要尽量避免发生意外。 •不建议 12 岁及以下儿童使用本产品，建议将头盔、手柄和配件置于儿童够不到的位置，13 岁以上青少年须在 成人监护下使用，以免发生意外。 •本产品无近视调节功能，近视用户请佩戴眼镜使用并尽量避免近视眼镜被头盔的光学镜片磨伤或刮伤。建议在 使用和收纳时注意防护光学镜片，避免尖锐物体划伤镜片，擦拭清洁时请使用柔软的眼镜布，否则可能划伤镜片， 影响视觉效果。 •长时间使用可能引发轻微的昡晕或者眼疲劳，建议使用 30 分钟后适当休息，可通过眼保健操或观看远处物体缓 解眼疲劳。如果您的身体感到任何不适，请立即停止使用。如果不适持续，请咨询医生。 •当头盔镜片被阳光或紫外线照射时（尤其在户外、阳台、窗台及汽车内存放时），可能导致屏幕出现永久性黄斑。 请尽量避免该情况发生，此种屏幕损坏不在产品的质保范围内。 *本产品最终外观及功能以实物为准，部分地区包装内含物品有所差异，本说明仅供参考。 02 CN
六自由度 VR 体验 本产品可以追踪头盔和手柄前、后、左、右、上、下和旋转的运动状态，您在现实中的肢体运动会实时反映在虚 拟世界中。 由于没有任何线缆的束缚，您在虚拟世界自由探索时请确保游玩区域的安全。 1. 建议准备一个整洁安全的体验空间：至少 2×2 米；保持房间明亮，避免在只有单色的墙或大面积玻璃、镜子类 反射物以及许多移动画面和物体的空间中使用。 2. 撕下 VR 头盔前端摄像头上的保护膜，并佩戴手柄挂绳。 3. 根据开机后的画面提示进行游玩区域的设定。 ❶ 安装电池 按箭头方向拔出电池盖侧边的绝缘纸 快速引导 提示：本产品虚拟的安全区提醒功能，不能完全保证您在设定好的游戏区域中的安全，请时刻注意周围的安全情况。 提示：建议使用 1.5V AA 碱性电池。 按照图示拨动电池盖拨钮打开电池盖更换电池。 03 CN
❷ 手柄开机 ❸ 头盔开机 ❹ 佩戴头盔，调节至清晰舒适的位置 首次开机：拔出绝缘纸，手柄自动开机（蓝灯闪烁） 非首次开机：短按手柄 Home 键开机（蓝灯闪烁） 长按头盔电源键 2 秒（蓝灯常亮） 调节旋钮转动绑带，使后脑垫套在头上，微调绑带长度及佩戴位置至视野清晰 04 提示：近视用户请佩戴眼镜或镜片插件使用，本产品不具备近视调节功能。 CN
❺ 微调顶绑带 微调顶绑带使其受力以减少额头压力 ❻ 瞳 距 调 节 在系统设置：“设置” ► “显示”界面中进行瞳距调节，点击“+”或“-”按钮可微调瞳距直至画面清晰 64mm 请勿 强行 掰动镜 筒，以 免造 成损坏 ！ 请注 意设 置使用 不合适 的瞳 距，可 能 会引起 视 觉重影 或 者眼睛 疲 劳。准 确 的瞳距 设 置有助 于 获得清 晰 的图像 并 减少眼睛 疲劳。 05 CN
产品部件详情说明 头盔状态指示灯 蓝灯常亮：开机进行中或工作状态 黄灯常亮：充电中，电量低于 98% 红灯常亮：充电中，电量低于 20% 绿灯常亮：充电完毕，电量大于 98% 或 充满 蓝灯闪烁：关机进行中 红灯闪烁：电量低于 20% 指示灯熄灭：休眠或关机 06 ① 电源键 开机：长按 2 秒 关机：长按 5 秒 复位：长按 10 秒 开机时，短按休眠 ② ③ ④ ⑤ 状态指示灯 贴脸泡棉 音量键 彩色透视摄像头 使用时请勿遮挡 ⑥ ⑦ ⑧ 顶部绑带 可拆卸 绑带旋钮 环境追踪摄像头 使用时请勿遮挡 ⑨ ⑩ ⑪ USB-C 接口 左 / 右喇叭 距离传感器 佩戴头盔后，系统自动唤醒 摘下头盔后，系统自动休眠 ⑫ ⑬ 眼球追踪摄像头 此功能仅 Pro 版支持 使用时请勿遮挡 面部追踪摄像头 此功能仅 Pro 版支持 使用时请勿遮挡 CN
手柄状态指示灯 熄灭：已连接或者关机 蓝灯常亮：固件升级模式 蓝灯闪烁：连接中 红蓝灯交替慢速闪烁：等待配对 ① ② 摇杆 菜单键 ③ Home 键 开机 : 短按关机 : 长按 6 秒退出应用 : 短按屏幕中心校正 : 长按 1 秒④ ⑤ ⑥ ⑦ 状态指示灯 抓握键 截屏键 扳机键 ⑧ ⑨ 电池盒 打开：拨动拨钮，电池盒弹出 安装：按压直至自动锁紧 追踪光环 使用时请勿遮挡 注：手柄挂绳可按图示将粗绳穿过细绳并锁紧在手柄尾端 07 CN
手柄硬件复位 如果手柄出现按 Home 键和任何按键均无反应或者头盔中虚拟手柄卡死不动的问题可拆装电池重新启动手柄。 近视用户配戴 本设备不具备近视调节功能，头盔可支持佩戴镜框宽度小于 150mm 的大多数标准眼镜。 操作说明 头控模式 未连接手柄的情况下，您可通过转动头部光标及点击头盔音量加减按键进行操作。 切换主控手柄射线 在主控菜单下，短按对应手柄的扳机键可以切换主控手柄的射线。 屏幕中心校正 戴着头盔直视前方，按住手柄 Home 键（或头控模式下头盔上的音量减键）1 秒以上，进行屏幕中心的校正将菜 单拉到当前视野朝向位置。 断开手柄 长按手柄 Home 键直至手柄状态指示灯红灯亮起并伴随振动产生时即可松手，此时手柄关机并断开与头盔的连接。 您无需刻意进行手柄关机操作，在以下状态下手柄会自动关机省电： •头盔进入深度休眠时（摘下头盔后一段时间） •头盔手柄管理界面解绑手柄时 •头盔关机时 添加新手柄 如需添加新手柄（头盔最多可同时连接一对手柄，即左右手柄各一只），或解绑手柄后再次连接 , 可进入“设置” “手 柄”，点击“配对”，同时按住手柄 Home 键和扳机键直至手柄状态指示灯红蓝交替闪烁时即可松开，然后根据 头盔画面提示操作。 ► 休眠 / 唤醒 方式一：摘下头盔一段时间后，系统自动休眠；戴上头盔时，系统自动唤醒。 方式二：短按头盔电源键也可以进行休眠或唤醒操作。 硬件复位 头盔硬件复位 如果头盔出现短按头盔电源键没有反应或头盔的画面卡死等问题，可以长按头盔电源键 10 秒以上重新启动头盔。 08 CN
安装眼镜支架 安装遮光鼻托 如您存在眼镜摩擦光学镜片或者压迫鼻梁的问题，请按照图示安装眼镜支架以增加间隔空间。 您可根据佩戴的舒适度选择是否安装。 如您感觉鼻子处漏光影响体验，请按照图示安装遮光鼻托配件。 由于眼睛空间密闭可能加剧起雾及出汗问题，您可根据喜好选择是否安装。 ❶ 摘下贴脸泡棉 ❷ 将眼镜支架按照图示安装在产品上 ❸ 将贴脸泡棉按照图示安装眼镜支架上 ❶ 摘下贴脸泡棉 ❸ 安装贴脸泡棉❷ 将遮光鼻托按照图示方式安装在贴脸泡棉上 注：按照图示拆卸眼镜支架 09 CN
更换贴脸泡棉 贴脸泡棉多次清洁和长时间使用后会变色和质地变软，您可酌情更换新泡棉。 更换顶绑带 摘下贴脸泡棉 ❸ 安装贴脸泡棉 按照图示捏住顶绑带金属扣，往下压到底然后抽出 ❷ •购买优质热门应用 •畅 聊 社 区， 与 众 多 PICO 玩 家 一起探索 VR 世界 •管理设备更便捷 •参与丰富互动活动 •更多精彩内容等你来发现 ❶ 微 信公 众 号：PICO VR抖音：PICO官 方 旗 舰 店哔 哩 哔 哩：PICO-VR官 方微 博：PICO-VR ❶ ❷ 10 CN
In The Box: VR Headset / 2 Controllers / 4 1.5V AA Alkaline Batteries / Glasses Spacer / Nose Pad / 2 Controller Lan- yards / USB-C Power Adapter / USB-C to C 2.0 Data Cable / Quick Guide / User Guide / Safety and WarrantyGuide Important Health & Safety Notes • This product is designed and intended to be used in an open and safe indoor area, free of anytripping or slipping hazards. To avoid accidents, remain conscious to the potential confines ofyour physical area and respect the boundary of your virtual area whenever you see it. Be sure towear the lanyards when using the Controllers. Make sure that there is enough space around yourhead and body (at least 2 meters by 2 meters) to stretch your arms to avoid damage or injury toyourself, others, and your surroundings. • This product is not recommended for children aged 12 and under. It is recommended to keep headsets,controllers and accessories out of the reach of children. Teenagers aged 13 and over must use it underadult supervision to avoid accidents. • This product is designed to accommodate most prescription glasses. Make sure to wear the VR Headsetin a manner in which the VR Headset lenses do not rub or impair your prescription lenses. • Prolonged use may cause dizziness or eye fatigue. It is recommended to take a break every 30 minutes.Try relieving your eyestrain by looking at distant objects. If you feel any discomfort, stop using the prod- uct immediately. If the discomfort persists, seek medical advice.• Do not expose the optical lenses to direct sunlight or other strong light sources. Exposure to directsunlight may cause permanent yellow spot damage on the screen. Screen damage caused by sunlightexposure or other strong sources of light is not covered by the warranty. • This product supports interpupillary distance (IPD) adjustment in system settings. When adjusting,please be aware that with the minimum IPD, it may touch the bridge of the nose. You can adjust the IPDaccording to your actual interpupillary distance in "Settings"►"Display". Please note that using inap- propriate IPD may increase the risk of discomfort. • This product has an “Eye Protection Mode”, certified by TÜV Rheinland (Germany), which can protectyour eyes by reducing blue light in the three color channels using software algorithms. The screen ap- pears yellowish in this mode and you can turn this feature on/off in "Settings"►"Display"►"Color"►“- Eye Protection”. • Protect optical lenses during use and storage to prevent damage, such as scratches or exposure tostrong light or direct sunlight. * Product and packaging are updated regularly, and the functions and contents of the standalone headset may be upgraded in the future.Therefore, the content, appearance and functionality listed in this manual and product packaging are subject to change and may notreflect the final product. These instructions are for reference only. * Carefully read this user guide before using the product and share this information with any other users, as it contains important safetyinformation. Keep the user guide as reference for the future. 11 EN
6 Degrees of Freedom VR The device can track your translational and rotational movements in all directions (up/down, left/right,forward/backward, pitch, roll, and yaw). Your movements in the real world will be captured and translatedto what you see in the virtual world when using the appropriate content. Ensure a safe environment before you start your VR experience. 1. Clear a safe indoor area of at least 2 meters by 2 meters. Keep the room bright, avoid spaces with main- ly single-colored walls, glass, mirrors, moving pictures or other similar objects. 2. Remove the protective film that covers the headset front cameras. Wear the lanyards connected to theControllers. 3. Set up your environment by following instructions on the VR Headset screen. Install Batteries ❶Pull the tab to remove the insulating paper. Quick Guide 2 m 2m This product can not guarantee your safety with guardian system, you will need to always pay attention to the surrounding safety. * Note: 1.5V AA alkaline batteries should be used.Slide the toggle according to arrow direction toopen the battery case. 12 EN
Power on the Controller ❷ First Start: The Controller will start automaticallyafter removing the insulating paper. Others: Short press the Home button for 1second until the status indicator flashes blue.Power on the VR Headset ❸ Long press the Power button for 2 seconds untilthe status indicator turns blue.Wear Your Headset for a Comfortable Fit and View ❹ Adjust the strap dial to turn the strap so that the back of your head rests on the padding. Fine-tune thelength and position of the strap to give a clear view. * Note: You can use this product with prescription glasses or lenses insert. 13 EN
Fine-tune the Top Strap ❺ Fine-tune the head strap to reduce pressure on the forehead. Interpupillary Distance (IPD) Adjustment ❻ In System Setting, go to “Setting” ► “Display” to adjust IPD, tap “+” or “-” button to slightly adjust IPDuntil the picture is clear. 14 64mm Please note that inappropriate IPD setting may cause ghosting or eyestrain.Accurate IPD setting helps you get a clear imaging and ease eyestrain. EN
Product Details VR Headset Status Indicator Legend Blue: Powered on with battery over 20% Yellow: Charging: Battery is less than 98% Red: Charging: Battery is less than 20% Green: Charging: Battery is more than 98% or charge complete Blue flashing: Shutting down Red flashing: Battery is less than 20% Off: Sleeping or Powered off Power Power on: Long press for 2 seconds Power off: Long press for 5 seconds Hardware reset: Long press for 10 seconds Short press to enter sleep or wake up Status Indicator Face Cushion Volume ① ② ③ ④ ⑤ ⑥ ⑦ ⑧ RGB See Through Camera Do not block during use. Top Strap Removable Strap Dial Tracking Cameras Do not block during use. ⑨ ⑩ ⑪ USB-C Interface Left/Right Speaker Proximity Sensor The system wakes upwhen the VR headset isput on, sleeps when VRheadset is taken off. ⑫ ⑬ Eye Tracking Cameras Pro version only. Do not block during use. Face Tracking Camera Pro version only. Do not block during use. 15 EN
Controller Status Indicator Legend Off: Connected or Powered off Blue: Firmware updating in progress Blue flashing: Searching for connection Red and blue flashing alternately: Pairing in progress 16 Joystick Menu ③ ① ② Home Power on: Short pressPower off: Long press for 6 secondsReturn home screen: Short pressScreen recentering: Press for 1 secondStatus Indicator Grip Capture Trigger ④ ⑤ ⑥ ⑦ ⑧ ⑨ Battery Case Open: Slide down the toggle andpop up the battery case. Lock: Push the battery case to lock. Tracking Ring Do not block during use. * Note: Pass the Controller Lanyardthrough the string as shown andlock at the end of the Controller EN
Operating Instructions Headset Control Mode If the Controller is not connected, you can interact with the home screen by moving your head to directthe crosshairs over your intended selection and clicking the Volume Up/Down button on the VR Headset. Switch the pointer of the master Controller In the home screen, short press the Trigger of the corresponding Controller to switch the pointer of themaster Controller. Screen re-centering Wear the VR Headset and look straight ahead, press and hold the Home button of the Controller or VRHeadset ( or the Volume Down button of the VR Headset in head control mode) for more than 1 second tore-center the screen. Disconnect the Controller Press and hold the Home button until the status indicator turns red and the Controller vibrates.Controllers will automatically shut down to save power in the following cases:When the VR Headset enters deep sleep (a while after the VR Headset is taken off)When the Controller is unpairedWhen the VR Headset is powered off Add a new Controller If you need to add a new Controller (the VR Headset can only connect one left Controller and one rightController) or reconnect with an unpaired Controller. Go to “Settings” ► “Controller”, click on “Pair”.Press and hold the Home button and the Trigger of the Controller at the same time until the red and bluelights of the Controller flashing alternately, and then follow the instructions on the VR Headset screen. Sleep / Wake up Option 1 (Proximity Sensor) Take off VR Headset for automatic sleeping: wear the VR Headset for automat- ic waking up. Option 2 (POWER Button) Press the Power button of the VR Headset for manual sleeping or waking up. Hardware reset VR Headset reset If the visual in the VR Headset freezes, or the VR Headset does not respond after short press the Powerbutton, you can press the Power button of the VR Headset for more than 10 seconds to reboot the VRHeadset. Controller reset If the virtual Controller, the Home button or any buttons of the Controller doesn\'t respond, remove andreinstall the battery case to restart the Controller. The VR Headset Adjustment This device has no myopia adjustment function. The VR Headset allows wearing most standard glasseswith a frame width of less than 150mm. to install Glasses Spacer to increase the space. You can install or not according to your situation. 17 EN
Install Glasses Spacer Install Nose Pad If you have glasses collision with headset lens or pressure on the bridge of nose, please follow the pictureto install Glasses Spacer to increase the space. You can install or not according to your situation. If you feel light leaking from your nose, please follow the picture to install Nose Pad to block the light.You can consider having it installed at your own discretion. Disassemble the Face Cushion. Install the Glasses Spacer on the Headset. ❸ ❶ ❷ Install the Face Cushion on the Glasses Spacer. Disassemble the Face Cushion. Install the Nose Pad on the Face Cushion. ❶ ❷ Install the Face Cushion on the Headset. ❸ * Note: Disassemble the Glasses Spacer 18 EN
Replace Face Cushion The Face Cushion will have the following phenomena such as color change, surface fluff, soft texture afterlong-term use and repeated cleaning. You can replace a new Face Cushion as needed. Replace Top Strap ❶ ❷ Disassemble the Face Cushion. Pinch the metal buckle of the top strap asshown, press it down and pull it out.Install the Face Cushion on. ❸ ❷ ❶ • Purchase high-quality and trending apps • Join PICO Community and explore the VR worldwith other PICO players• Manage your device with ease • Engage in diverse and interactive activities • More exciting features waiting for you 19 EN
'