LOL Anonymous I'm here! & I did answer you back there.
kl el kotb el qadema (tawrat + enjel + 9o7f ibrahem) 7orfat w t'3ayarat.. law ma 9ar hal shy chan ma 6ala3 ktab yded ye;3y elly gablah l7ad ma 6ala3 lna el quraan b norah elly allah 7f'6ah don ta7ref w tabdel ela yom el dein .. shlon tyeeb Joan shy ma5ooth 5erah?!
1- Imagine you have two individuals. One truly believes in God but he is a bad husband and father who cheats on his wife and neglects his children. The other man is a nonbeliever; he accepts religion in theory and doctrine but simply does not have faith no matter how hard he tried. He is a good father and a good husband as well. When they stand before God at the Day of Judgment, would the nonbeliever be condemned to eternal hell only for that one flaw in him? Don't the other good traits in that person matter at all? Does being a nonbeliever equal being evil?
2-God knows everything. However, why would He have created when He knows exactly what each person is going to do and where they will end up? For example, let us suppose that tomorrow I will murder someone. God knows that I will do that. And He knows that I will suffer in hell when the time comes. So why does He purposely inflict that pain on me? To teach me a lesson? He knows the outcome of everything and everyone He has created.
3-Since you brought up science in the previous comments section, I am seriously curious (I am not trying to be glib) about dinosaurs and prehistoric humans. We have seen the evolution of humans and we have fossils and hard evidence of it. The science world has traced back "Eve" to Africa. The concept of Adam and Eve seems too mythological to be 100% factual. It has the same tone of Greek and Ancient Egyptian legends.
-Note: I am not trying to corner you here, I just want to know your response to my queries and thoughts. Thanks.
_ ولماذا نصلى ولمن نصلى .. انى لا ارى لصلاتكم هذه اى حكمه ولماذا كل تلك الحركات اما كان يكفى الخشوع..
اعتقد ان المشكلة ليست كما ذكرت..فما ذكرته يعني ان هناك العديد من المسائل الفقهية المتصلة بالعصر الجديد دون حل. على العكس, فالحلال بين والحرام بين. اعتقد المشكلة تكمن بالمسلمين الذين اصابهم الوهن.
You'll be answerd personaly only if; you comment with your blogger's name/nick.
I answered you before & there was no response from your behalf. Why would you think you're worth an answer from me since you can seek answers from good books?
Your questions are very simple, with clean cut answers. Don't use the word corner; it indicates things you don't have the first alphabet for!
Religion was established to calm our fears from the unknown. Freud did write about it in the father figure argument. Try to read it.
I deleted my last comment because in the end of it I inserted some thing that may offend some people (if you read it, I gauss you know what I mean). Abraham did not believe in God until he saw the birds come to life. So, all what I want is a single prove similar to Abraham.
I indeed busy doing my homework; I have to solve the energy equation and the continuity equation to come with another, hopefully, exact solution to the problem.
Do you work? I mean do you have a job, it seems that you are always on line!!!???? It is amazing how some one would stick to the internet. Try to go out more often, play sport or find any other hobby. If you could not disattach yourself from the internet try and seek a professional help… :-). Honestly, I’m not making fun of you it is just an advice… sincere advice.
I measure prosperity of a nation by the degree of its civilization in comparison to others of its time. Islamic civilization was at the peak during the Umayyad and Abbasid reigns, at the time when Moslems conquered other nations and dying civilizations, and mixed with them, and the new comers in Islam started researching for the truth. In their quest they translated Greek philosophy books and dug into ancient ones. Their search for truth led them to the emergence of chemistry, Algebra and other sciences And their findings excelled them in innovative inventions. The maps and astrolabes that Columbus used to sail on his quest to discover the West years later were taken from the Arabs. And in contrary to the scribbles of their holy book, Arabic books were the first that brought the roundedness of earth to world attention. Arabic language romanticized the rigid Latin, poetry and verse advanced. At one time, civilization was dubbed as Arabization in Andalusia and that was evident in Andalusia’s Christian and Jewish ancient books. Islamic Architecture and their aggregation systems portrayed marvels of their time. Islamic libraries were huge and rich for the European knowledge seekers.
And history tells us that those were the times when Moslems were the furthest from the dogma of their religion, there societies were open to controlled prostitution in the name of dancimng Jawari, and alcohol was openly consumed. We also notice in these periods that struggle for power among them mounted, yet they were the most tolerant to other nations and beliefs. There was nothing Islamic about them at that time, only a name. After that time, the Islamic civilization collapsed and kept deteriorating as people clung more to the their religious beliefs that were diverted through different interpretations.
And based on that; I believe that it’s not only Moslems who missread their religion, the problem stemmed from the core of the religion (Quran and tradition) for being vague and subject to different interpretations. If Quran was the true word of God, then it should have contained the miracle of not being subject to different interpretations, at least to keep Moslems united, and then, one would believe that Islam is suitable for every location and time.
Nothing can give a solid proof of the existence of heaven and hell, yet, nothing can disprove it either. Same goes to God. So the chance remain fifty-fifty. You either believe in it for the sake of taking a lesser risk if you don’t believe in blind faith, or discard it all together. Yet, the possibility is there until proved or disproved. As for now; these cases can only be understood through logic. So let’s reiterate your question and narrow it down to make it closer to something that can be measured.
Is there any mention of the stories of prophets outside the holy books? Are there any archeological evidences of each prophet’s reign (and I stress prophet’s)? Are there any mention of each prophet in history books outside its holy book, or the books that were based on it’s holy books? Ok, that was too general, let’s narrow it down a bit since your knowledge of your religion, mashallah, especially in reciting Quran is superb.
Is there any mention of the prophet Mohammad reign in non-Moslem history books other than those referenced to Moslem books? And if there were; did those stories mach? Did archeology of Mohammad’s time match those stories? Did ancient books of other nations confirm those stories? After all Mecca was an open, mid trade center for traders of the South and the North, and supposedly was exposed and open to other nations, and an emergence of a new religion would not have gone unnoticed in the ancient books of those nations.
That's why faith is called "FAITH" to believe in the unseen, you see.
keep in mind that every major religion has gone through various phases from emergence to growth to stagnation to depression and reformation. these are cycles that play out across centuries and i suspect islam is not immune to them.
islam is unique in that it is truly the last 'great' religion and it is here to stay. the future should be one of consilience and consolidation between religions and peoples.
at the end of the day - tolerance of thought will be the salvation of mankind.
I've been asking your first question for as long as I can remember and nobody has given me a convincing answer yet. I also asked the second question verbatim when I was in my high school's Tarbiya Islamiya class, and the teacher had no answer. I kept hounding him until the students yelled at me to shut up and then he kicked me out!
We're all adults here, so why can't you answer Anon's query? I still find it amazing that you named yourself after Saint Joan. A Christian (gasp!) who will burn in hell according to some of the comments here.
All men are my brothers. I would have liked to have said it then, and I would like to say it now: all men are my brothers. But all men are not my brothers. Why? Because all women are my sisters. And the brother who denies the rights of his sister: that brother is not my brother. At the very best, he is my half-brother - by definition. Osama is not my brother.
Religion is sensitive ground, as well it might be. Here we walk on eggshells. Because religion is itself an eggshell. Today, in the West, there are no good excuses for religious belief - unless we think that ignorance, reaction and sentimentality are good excuses. This is of course not so in the East, where, we acknowledge, almost every living citizen in many huge and populous countries is intimately defined by religious belief. The excuses, here, are very persuasive; and we duly accept that 'faith' - recently and almost endearingly defined as 'the desire for the approval of supernatural beings' - is a world-historical force and a world-historical actor. All religions, unsurprisingly, have their terrorists, Christian, Jewish, Hindu, even Buddhist. But we are not hearing from those religions. We are hearing from Islam.
Let us make the position clear. We can begin by saying, not only that we respect Muhammad, but that no serious person could fail to respect Muhammad - a unique and luminous historical being. Judged by the continuities he was able to set in motion, he remains a titanic figure, and, for Muslims, all-answering: a revolutionary, a warrior, and a sovereign, a Christ and a Caesar, 'with a Koran in one hand', as Bagehot imagined him, 'and a sword in the other'. Muhammad has strong claims to being the most extraordinary man who ever lived. And always a man, as he always maintained, and not a god. Naturally we respect Muhammad. But we do not respect Muhammad Atta.
Until recently it was being said that what we are confronted with, here, is 'a civil war' within Islam. That's what all this was supposed to be: not a clash of civilisations or anything like that, but a civil war within Islam. Well, the civil war appears to be over. And Islamism won it. The loser, moderate Islam, is always deceptively well-represented on the level of the op-ed page and the public debate; elsewhere, it is supine and inaudible. We are not hearing from moderate Islam. Whereas Islamism, as a mover and shaper of world events, is pretty well all there is.
So, to repeat, we respect Islam - the donor of countless benefits to mankind, and the possessor of a thrilling history. But Islamism? No, we can hardly be asked to respect a creedal wave that calls for our own elimination. More, we regard the Great Leap Backwards as a tragic development in Islam's story, and now in ours. Naturally we respect Islam. But we do not respect Islamism, just as we respect Muhammad and do not respect Muhammad Atta.
المؤامرات على الأديان وجميع الانقلابات المخربة والثورات على القيم والمبادئ خرجت من هذا التراث .. وان كل معول هدم كان وراءه توجيه يهودي.
•تذكروا أن الشعب الذي لا يهلك غيره يهلك نفسه.
•يجب ان نخلق الجيل الذي لا يخجل من كشف عورته (ألا تفسر لنا هذه الجملة موجة العرى في الافلام والموضات التى تسود العالم الآن).
.علينا ان نشعل حربا بين الشعوب ونضرب الدول بعضها ببعض فبهذا يصبح جميع المتحاربين في حاجة الى أموالنا فنفرض عليهم شروطنا.
•الجماهير عمياء فاشتروها بالمال وسوقوها كالبهائم الى أهدافكم.
•سيطروا على الانتخابات ووسائل الاعلام والصحافة (وهم قد سيطروا عليها بالمال والجنس والمرأة في الغرب الرأسمالي وبالحزب والسلطة في العالم الاشتراكي).
•ادفعوا الجماهير العمياء الى الثورة وسلموهم مقاليد الحكم ليحكموا في غوغائية وغباء (وقد فعلوا هذه في الثورة الفرنسية) وحينئذ نأتي نحن ونعدمهم فنكون منقذين للعالم (وقد اعدموهم جميعاً من روبسبير الى ميرابوا).
•ارفعوا شعار الحرية واهدموا بها الاخلاق والاسرة والقومية والوطنية.
.ارفعوا شعار العلم واهدموا به الدين .. وهذا ما فعله كمال أتاتورك (حفيد مزاراحي) حينما اقام الدولة العلمانية في تركيا ووقف يخطب في البرلمان التركي عام 1923 ساخراً من القرآن.
نحن الآن في القرن العشرين لا نستطيع ان نسير وراء كتاب تشريع يبحث عن التين والزيتون.
•الذي يعرقل مؤامراتكم اوقعوه في فضائح ثم هددوه بكشفها (وقد فعلوها في ووترجيت) او في مآزق مالية ثم تقدموا لانقاذه (وقد فعلها دزرائيلي مع الخديو واستولى على القنال).. وإذ تعذر الامر سارعوا الى اغتياله (وقد فعلوها بكنيدي) ثم اقتلوا قاتله لتدفنوا اسرارنا معه الى الأبد (وقد فعلوها بقاتل كنيدي).
•اقتلوا القوميات والوطنيات بالدعوة الى الاممية والمواطنة العالمية وقد فعلها ماركس في الشيوعية.
•كل ما عدا اليهود حيوانات ناطقة سخرها الله في خدمة اليهود.
واليهودية ترى ان الله واحد ولكنها تحتكره لنفسها فلا عمل لله الا الحفاظ على اسرائيل وتسخير جميع الشعوب لخدمتها.
واللاهوت اليهودي لا يؤمن بآخرة، وقد شطبوا كل ما جاء عن الآخرة في التوراة .. والقيامة عندهم هي قيامة دولتهم في فلسطين والبعث بعثها والنشر نشرها .. ويوم الحساب هو اليوم الذي يحاسبون فيه كل الأمم يوم يعود المسيح ويباركهم ويختارهم نواباً له في حكم العالم وإقامة ملكوت الله على الأرض .. والعجيب انهم كفروا بالمسيح حينما جاء ثم أعلنوا إيمانهم بعودته وشرطوا هذه العودة بانها رجعة من المسيح ليختارهم رؤساء وحكاماً للعالم الى الأبد.
والفكر اليهودي يلقى غلالة من الأسرار والطلاسم والكتمان والغموض على كل شئ .. والكبالا والسحر وعلم الأعداد والحروف وتسخير الشياطين من علومهم التى شغفوا بها وروجوها ونشروها.
وكانت وسيلتهم الى هدم الكتب السماوية هى تفسيرها بالتأويل وذلك برفض المعاني الظاهرة واختراع معان باطنة تهدم الغرض الديني وتفسد هدفه.
ونستطيع ان نرى اثر التوجيه الهودي في الفلسفات العبثية والدمية والمادية والفوضية والإباحية .. واحيانا نلمح اسماء يهودية خلفها مثل : سارتر – فرويد – ماركس – ماركوز.
واذا فتحنا ملف الديانة البهائية فإننا نجد اثر التوجيه اليهودي واضحا في كتبها.
عبد الهاء تأليف سليم قبعين القاهرة مطبعة العمران 1922.
مفواضات عبد البهاء الطبعة الاولى 1928م. موعود كل الامم.
جورج تاوزنه مطبوع بإذن من المحفل الروحاني لمصر والسودان.
•اكثر فلاسفة اليونان تعلموا الحكمة من بنى اسرائيل.
•رسالة عبد البهاء هي توحيد المسلمين والنصارى واليهود وجمعهم على أصل نواميس موسى.
•عمل موسى لا يس